1. Mov Disord. 2018 Jan;33(1):88-98. doi: 10.1002/mds.27105. Epub 2017 Aug 26.

The nasal and gut microbiome in Parkinson's disease and idiopathic rapid eye 
movement sleep behavior disorder.

Heintz-Buschart A(1), Pandey U(1), Wicke T(2)(3), Sixel-Döring F(2)(3), Janzen 
A(3), Sittig-Wiegand E(3), Trenkwalder C(2)(4), Oertel WH(3), Mollenhauer 
B(2)(5), Wilmes P(1).

Author information:
(1)Eco-Systems Biology Research Group, Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine 
(LCSB), University of Luxembourg, Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg.
(2)Paracelsus-Elena-Klinik, Kassel, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Philipps University Marburg, Germany.
(4)University Medical Center Goettingen, Department of Neurosurgery, Goettingen, 
Germany.
(5)University Medical Center Goettingen, Department of Neurology, Goettingen, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2018 Jan;33(1):5-7.

BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence connects the gut microbiota and the onset and/or 
phenotype of Parkinson's disease (PD). Differences in the abundances of specific 
bacterial taxa have been reported in PD patients. It is, however, unknown 
whether these differences can be observed in individuals at high risk, for 
example, with idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, a prodromal 
condition of α-synuclein aggregation disorders including PD.
OBJECTIVES: To compare microbiota in carefully preserved nasal wash and stool 
samples of subjects with idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, 
manifest PD, and healthy individuals.
METHODS: Microbiota of flash-frozen stool and nasal wash samples from 76 PD 
patients, 21 idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder patients, and 
78 healthy controls were assessed by 16S and 18S ribosomal RNA amplicon 
sequencing. Seventy variables, related to demographics, clinical parameters 
including nonmotor symptoms, and sample processing, were analyzed in relation to 
microbiome variability and controlled differential analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Differentially abundant gut microbes, such as Akkermansia, were 
observed in PD, but no strong differences in nasal microbiota. Eighty percent of 
the differential gut microbes in PD versus healthy controls showed similar 
trends in idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, for example, 
Anaerotruncus and several Bacteroides spp., and correlated with nonmotor 
symptoms. Metagenomic sequencing of select samples enabled the reconstruction of 
genomes of so far uncharacterized differentially abundant organisms.
CONCLUSION: Our study reveals differential abundances of gut microbial taxa in 
PD and its prodrome idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder in 
comparison to the healthy controls, and highlights the potential of metagenomics 
to identify and characterize microbial taxa, which are enriched or depleted in 
PD and/or idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder. © 2017 The 
Authors. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of 
International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

© 2017 The Authors. Movement Disorders published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on 
behalf of International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.27105
PMCID: PMC5811909
PMID: 28843021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Cell Host Microbe. 2017 Nov 8;22(5):705-716.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2017.10.001. 
Epub 2017 Oct 19.

Three-Dimensional Microbiome and Metabolome Cartography of a Diseased Human 
Lung.

Garg N(1), Wang M(2), Hyde E(3), da Silva RR(1), Melnik AV(1), Protsyuk I(4), 
Bouslimani A(1), Lim YW(5), Wong R(6), Humphrey G(3), Ackermann G(3), Spivey 
T(7), Brouha SS(7), Bandeira N(2), Lin GY(6), Rohwer F(5), Conrad DJ(8), 
Alexandrov T(9), Knight R(10), Dorrestein PC(11).

Author information:
(1)Collaborative Mass Spectrometry Innovation Center, Skaggs School of Pharmacy 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA.
(2)Department of Computer Science & Engineering, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA.
(4)Structural and Computational Biology, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, 
Heidelberg 69117, Germany.
(5)Biology Department, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Diego Health, San 
Diego, CA 92103, USA.
(7)Department of Radiology, University of California, San Diego Health, San 
Diego, CA 92103, USA.
(8)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA. Electronic address: dconrad@ucsd.edu.
(9)Collaborative Mass Spectrometry Innovation Center, Skaggs School of Pharmacy 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA; Structural and Computational Biology, European Molecular Biology 
Laboratory, Heidelberg 69117, Germany. Electronic address: 
theodore.alexandrov@embl.de.
(10)Department of Computer Science & Engineering, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Center for Microbiome 
Innovation, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. 
Electronic address: rknight@ucsd.edu.
(11)Collaborative Mass Spectrometry Innovation Center, Skaggs School of Pharmacy 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA; Department of Computer Science & Engineering, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Department of Pediatrics, 
University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Center for 
Microbiome Innovation, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, 
USA. Electronic address: pdorrestein@ucsd.edu.

Our understanding of the spatial variation in the chemical and microbial makeup 
of an entire human organ remains limited, in part due to the size and 
heterogeneity of human organs and the complexity of the associated metabolome 
and microbiome. To address this challenge, we developed a workflow to enable the 
cartography of metabolomic and microbiome data onto a three-dimensional (3D) 
organ reconstruction built off radiological images. This enabled the direct 
visualization of the microbial and chemical makeup of a human lung from a cystic 
fibrosis patient. We detected host-derived molecules, microbial metabolites, 
medications, and region-specific metabolism of medications and placed it in the 
context of microbial distributions in the lung. Our tool further created 
browsable maps of a 3D microbiome/metabolome reconstruction map on a 
radiological image of a human lung and forms an interactive resource for the 
scientific community.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chom.2017.10.001
PMCID: PMC6267898
PMID: 29056429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. JAMA Dermatol. 2017 Sep 1;153(9):897-905. doi: 10.1001/jamadermatol.2017.0904.

The Follicular Skin Microbiome in Patients With Hidradenitis Suppurativa and 
Healthy Controls.

Ring HC(1), Thorsen J(2), Saunte DM(1), Lilje B(3), Bay L(4), Riis PT(1), Larsen 
N(5), Andersen LO(3), Nielsen HV(3), Miller IM(1), Bjarnsholt T(4), Fuursted 
K(3), Jemec GB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Zealand University Hospital, Health Sciences 
Faculty, University of Copenhagen, Roskilde, Denmark.
(2)Copenhagen Prospective Studies on Asthma in Childhood (COPSAC), Copenhagen 
Prospective Studies on Asthma in Childhood, Herlev and Gentofte Hospital, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Infection Control, Statens Serum Institut, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Costerton Biofilm Center, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Danish Genome Institute, Aarhus, Denmark.

IMPORTANCE: Although the pathogenesis of hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) remains 
enigmatic, several factors point to potential involvement of the cutaneous 
microbiome. Insight into the cutaneous microbiome in HS using next-generation 
sequencing may provide novel data on the microbiological diversity of the skin.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the follicular skin microbiome in patients with HS and 
in healthy controls.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: This case-control study obtained punch biopsy 
specimens from patients with HS (lesional and nonlesional) and healthy controls 
between October 1, 2014, and August 1, 2016. Data were analyzed from March to 
November 2016. Patients with HS were recruited from the Department of 
Dermatology, Zealand University Hospital, Roskilde, Denmark. Biopsy specimens 
were analyzed at the Department of Microbiology and Infection Control, Statens 
Serum Institut, Copenhagen, Denmark. None of the participants received any 
antibiotics (systemic or topical therapy) within 1 month before the study. In 
patients with HS, biopsy specimens were obtained from lesional skin (axilla or 
groin) and nonlesional skin. Only nodules containing at least 1 visible hair 
follicle were biopsied. Biopsy specimens from healthy controls were obtained 
from the axilla only.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The different microbiomes were investigated using 
next-generation sequencing targeting 16S and 18S ribosomal RNA.
RESULTS: The skin microbiome was characterized in 30 patients with HS (mean [SD] 
age, 46.9 [14.0] years; 19 [63% female]) and 24 healthy controls (mean [SD] age, 
32.2 [12.0] years; 13 [54% female]). The next-generation sequencing data 
provided a previously unreported (to our knowledge) characterization of the skin 
microbiome in HS. The study demonstrated that the microbiome in HS differs 
significantly from that in healthy controls in lesional and nonlesional skin. 
Overall, the following 5 microbiome types were identified: Corynebacterium 
species (type I), Acinetobacter and Moraxella species (type II), Staphylococcus 
epidermidis (type III), Porphyromonas and Peptoniphilus species (type IV), and 
Propionibacterium acnes (type V). In lesional skin, microbiome types consisted 
predominantly of type I or type IV. Microbiome type IV was not detected in 
healthy controls. Several taxa, including Propionibacterium, showed a 
significantly higher relative abundance in healthy controls vs HS skin, 
indicating that Propionibacterium may be part of the pathogenesis in HS.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The study findings suggest a link between a dysbiotic 
cutaneous microbiome and HS.

DOI: 10.1001/jamadermatol.2017.0904
PMCID: PMC5710430
PMID: 28538949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Saunte 
reported being paid as a consultant for an advisory board meeting by AbbVie 
Denmark and reported receiving speaker’s honoraria or grants from the following 
companies: Bayer, AbbVie Denmark, Desitin, Pfizer, Galderma, Astellas, Novartis, 
and LEO Pharma. Dr Jemec reported receiving consulting fees from Abbott 
Laboratories, AstraZeneca, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, and Dumex-Alpharma; lecture 
fees from Abbott Laboratories, Galderma, Pfizer, and Roche; grant support from 
Abbott Laboratories, Pfizer, Photocure, and LEO Pharma; equipment on loan from 
Michelson Diagnostics; and reimbursement for travel expenses from Abbott 
Laboratories, Galderma, and Photocure. No other disclosures were reported.


4. Microbiome. 2018 Dec 17;6(1):227. doi: 10.1186/s40168-018-0611-4.

Signatures within the esophageal microbiome are associated with host genetics, 
age, and disease.

Deshpande NP(1), Riordan SM(2), Castaño-Rodríguez N(3), Wilkins MR(1)(3)(4), 
Kaakoush NO(5).

Author information:
(1)Systems Biology Initiative, School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular 
Sciences, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia.
(2)Gastrointestinal and Liver Unit, The Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, NSW, 
2031, Australia.
(3)School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
2052, Australia.
(4)Ramaciotti Centre for Gene Function Analysis, UNSW Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 2052, 
Australia.
(5)School of Medical Sciences, UNSW Sydney, Kensington, Sydney, NSW, 2052, 
Australia. n.kaakoush@unsw.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The esophageal microbiome has been proposed to be involved in a 
range of diseases including the esophageal adenocarcinoma cascade; however, 
little is currently known about its function and relationship to the host. Here, 
the esophageal microbiomes of 106 prospectively recruited patients were assessed 
using 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA amplicon sequencing as well as shotgun sequencing, 
and associations with age, gender, proton pump inhibitor use, host genetics, and 
disease were tested.
RESULTS: The esophageal microbiome was found to cluster into functionally 
distinct community types (esotypes) defined by the relative abundances of 
Streptococcus and Prevotella. While age was found to be a significant factor 
driving microbiome composition, bacterial signatures and functions such as 
enrichment with Gram-negative oral-associated bacteria and microbial lactic acid 
production were associated with the early stages of the esophageal 
adenocarcinoma cascade. Non-bacterial microbes such as archaea, Candida spp., 
and bacteriophages were also identified in low abundance in the esophageal 
microbiome. Specific host SNPs in NOTCH2, STEAP2-AS1, and NREP were associated 
with the composition of the esophageal microbiome in our cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the most comprehensive assessment of the 
esophageal microbiome to date and identifies novel signatures and host markers 
that can be investigated further in the context of esophageal adenocarcinoma 
development.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-018-0611-4
PMCID: PMC6297961
PMID: 30558669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Ethics approval was obtained from the South Eastern Sydney Local Health District 
Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC 13/375 and HREC 16/020). All subjects 
recruited to the study signed a written informed consent, and all experiments 
were performed in accordance with relevant guidelines and regulations. CONSENT 
FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


5. Microbiome. 2017 Nov 25;5(1):153. doi: 10.1186/s40168-017-0373-4.

The gut mycobiome of the Human Microbiome Project healthy cohort.

Nash AK(1), Auchtung TA(1), Wong MC(1), Smith DP(1), Gesell JR(1), Ross MC(1), 
Stewart CJ(1), Metcalf GA(2), Muzny DM(2), Gibbs RA(2), Ajami NJ(1), Petrosino 
JF(3).

Author information:
(1)Alkek Center for Metagenomics and Microbiome Research, Department of 
Molecular Virology and Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 
USA.
(2)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Alkek Center for Metagenomics and Microbiome Research, Department of 
Molecular Virology and Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, 
USA. jpetrosi@bcm.edu.

BACKGROUND: Most studies describing the human gut microbiome in healthy and 
diseased states have emphasized the bacterial component, but the fungal 
microbiome (i.e., the mycobiome) is beginning to gain recognition as a 
fundamental part of our microbiome. To date, human gut mycobiome studies have 
primarily been disease centric or in small cohorts of healthy individuals. To 
contribute to existing knowledge of the human mycobiome, we investigated the gut 
mycobiome of the Human Microbiome Project (HMP) cohort by sequencing the 
Internal Transcribed Spacer 2 (ITS2) region as well as the 18S rRNA gene.
RESULTS: Three hundred seventeen HMP stool samples were analyzed by ITS2 
sequencing. Fecal fungal diversity was significantly lower in comparison to 
bacterial diversity. Yeast dominated the samples, comprising eight of the top 15 
most abundant genera. Specifically, fungal communities were characterized by a 
high prevalence of Saccharomyces, Malassezia, and Candida, with S. cerevisiae, 
M. restricta, and C. albicans operational taxonomic units (OTUs) present in 
96.8, 88.3, and 80.8% of samples, respectively. There was a high degree of 
inter- and intra-volunteer variability in fungal communities. However, S. 
cerevisiae, M. restricta, and C. albicans OTUs were found in 92.2, 78.3, and 
63.6% of volunteers, respectively, in all samples donated over an approximately 
1-year period. Metagenomic and 18S rRNA gene sequencing data agreed with ITS2 
results; however, ITS2 sequencing provided greater resolution of the relatively 
low abundance mycobiome constituents.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to bacterial communities, the human gut mycobiome is low 
in diversity and dominated by yeast including Saccharomyces, Malassezia, and 
Candida. Both inter- and intra-volunteer variability in the HMP cohort were 
high, revealing that unlike bacterial communities, an individual's mycobiome is 
no more similar to itself over time than to another person's. Nonetheless, 
several fungal species persisted across a majority of samples, evidence that a 
core gut mycobiome may exist. ITS2 sequencing data provided greater resolution 
of the mycobiome membership compared to metagenomic and 18S rRNA gene sequencing 
data, suggesting that it is a more sensitive method for studying the mycobiome 
of stool samples.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-017-0373-4
PMCID: PMC5702186
PMID: 29178920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) at Baylor College of Medicine reviewed and 
approved the protocols, informed consent, and other study documents (IRB 
protocols H-22895 (IRB no. 00001021) and H-22035 (IRB no. 00002649)) [16]. 
CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare 
that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains 
neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


6. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2018 Oct 18;12(10):e0006730. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0006730. eCollection 2018 Oct.

Uncovering vector, parasite, blood meal and microbiome patterns from mixed-DNA 
specimens of the Chagas disease vector Triatoma dimidiata.

Orantes LC(1), Monroy C(2), Dorn PL(3), Stevens L(4), Rizzo DM(5), Morrissey 
L(1), Hanley JP(5), Rodas AG(2), Richards B(3), Wallin KF(1)(6), Helms Cahan 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)Rubenstein School of Environment and Natural Resources, University of 
Vermont, Burlington, Vermont, United States of America.
(2)Laboratorio de Entomología Aplicada y Parasitología, Escuela de Biología, 
Universidad San Carlos de Guatemala, Ciudad de Guatemala, Guatemala.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Loyola University New Orleans, New 
Orleans, Louisiana, United States of America.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont, United 
States of America.
(5)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of Vermont, 
Burlington, Vermont, United States of America.
(6)USDA Forest Service, Northern Research Station, Burlington, Vermont, United 
States of America.

Chagas disease, considered a neglected disease by the World Health Organization, 
is caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, and transmitted by >140 
triatomine species across the Americas. In Central America, the main vector is 
Triatoma dimidiata, an opportunistic blood meal feeder inhabiting both domestic 
and sylvatic ecotopes. Given the diversity of interacting biological agents 
involved in the epidemiology of Chagas disease, having simultaneous information 
on the dynamics of the parasite, vector, the gut microbiome of the vector, and 
the blood meal source would facilitate identifying key biotic factors associated 
with the risk of T. cruzi transmission. In this study, we developed a 
RADseq-based analysis pipeline to study mixed-species DNA extracted from T. 
dimidiata abdomens. To evaluate the efficacy of the method across spatial 
scales, we used a nested spatial sampling design that spanned from individual 
villages within Guatemala to major biogeographic regions of Central America. 
Information from each biotic source was distinguished with bioinformatics tools 
and used to evaluate the prevalence of T. cruzi infection and predominant 
Discrete Typing Units (DTUs) in the region, the population genetic structure of 
T. dimidiata, gut microbial diversity, and the blood meal history. An average of 
3.25 million reads per specimen were obtained, with approximately 1% assigned to 
the parasite, 20% to the vector, 11% to bacteria, and 4% to putative blood 
meals. Using a total of 6,405 T. cruzi SNPs, we detected nine infected vectors 
harboring two distinct DTUs: TcI and a second unidentified strain, possibly 
TcIV. Vector specimens were sufficiently variable for population genomic 
analyses, with a total of 25,710 T. dimidiata SNPs across all samples that were 
sufficient to detect geographic genetic structure at both local and regional 
scales. We observed a diverse microbiotic community, with significantly higher 
bacterial species richness in infected T. dimidiata abdomens than those that 
were not infected. Unifrac analysis suggests a common assemblage of bacteria 
associated with infection, which co-occurs with the typical gut microbial 
community derived from the local environment. We identified vertebrate blood 
meals from five T. dimidiata abdomens, including chicken, dog, duck and human; 
however, additional detection methods would be necessary to confidently identify 
blood meal sources from most specimens. Overall, our study shows this method is 
effective for simultaneously generating genetic data on vectors and their 
associated parasites, along with ecological information on feeding patterns and 
microbial interactions that may be followed up with complementary approaches 
such as PCR-based parasite detection, 18S eukaryotic and 16S bacterial 
barcoding.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0006730
PMCID: PMC6193617
PMID: 30335763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist


7. Microbiome. 2019 Jul 4;7(1):100. doi: 10.1186/s40168-019-0712-8.

The human gallbladder microbiome is related to the physiological state and the 
biliary metabolic profile.

Molinero N(1), Ruiz L(1)(2), Milani C(3), Gutiérrez-Díaz I(4), Sánchez B(1), 
Mangifesta M(3), Segura J(2), Cambero I(2), Campelo AB(1), García-Bernardo 
CM(5), Cabrera A(6), Rodríguez JI(6), González S(4), Rodríguez JM(2), Ventura 
M(3)(7), Delgado S(8), Margolles A(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry, Dairy Research Institute of 
Asturias, Spanish National Research Council (IPLA-CSIC), Paseo Río Linares s/n, 
33300, Villaviciosa, Asturias, Spain.
(2)Departmental sections of Food Technology, and Nutrition and Food Science, 
Complutense University of Madrid, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Probiogenomics, Department of Chemistry, Life Sciences, and 
Environmental Sustainability, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(4)Area of Physiology, Department of Functional Biology, University of Oviedo, 
Asturias, Spain.
(5)General Surgery Service, Central University Hospital of Asturias, Asturias, 
Spain.
(6)General and Digestive Surgery Service, Cabueñes Gijon University Hospital, 
Asturias, Spain.
(7)Microbiome Research Hub, University of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(8)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry, Dairy Research Institute of 
Asturias, Spanish National Research Council (IPLA-CSIC), Paseo Río Linares s/n, 
33300, Villaviciosa, Asturias, Spain. sdelgado@ipla.csic.es.
(9)Department of Microbiology and Biochemistry, Dairy Research Institute of 
Asturias, Spanish National Research Council (IPLA-CSIC), Paseo Río Linares s/n, 
33300, Villaviciosa, Asturias, Spain. amargolles@ipla.csic.es.

BACKGROUND: The microbial populations of the human intestinal tract and their 
relationship to specific diseases have been extensively studied during the last 
decade. However, the characterization of the human bile microbiota as a whole 
has been hampered by difficulties in accessing biological samples and the lack 
of adequate methodologies to assess molecular studies. Although a few reports 
have described the biliary microbiota in some hepatobiliary diseases, the bile 
microbiota of healthy individuals has not been described. With this in mind, the 
goal of the present study was to generate fundamental knowledge on the 
composition and activity of the human bile microbiota, as well as establishing 
its potential relationship with human bile-related disorders.
RESULTS: Human bile samples from the gallbladder of individuals from a control 
group, without any record of hepatobiliary disorder, were obtained from liver 
donors during liver transplantation surgery. A bile DNA extraction method was 
optimized together with a quantitative PCR (qPCR) assay for determining the 
bacterial load. This allows the selection of samples to perform functional 
metagenomic analysis. Bile samples from the gallbladder of individuals suffering 
from lithiasis were collected during gallbladder resection and the microbial 
profiles assessed, using a 16S rRNA gene-based sequencing analysis, and compared 
with those of the control group. Additionally, the metabolic profile of the 
samples was analyzed by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). We detected, for the 
first time, bacterial communities in gallbladder samples of individuals without 
any hepatobiliary pathology. In the biliary microecosystem, the main bacterial 
phyla were represented by Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria, and 
Proteobacteria. Significant differences in the relative abundance of different 
taxa of both groups were found. Sequences belonging to the family 
Propionibacteriaceae were more abundant in bile samples from control subjects; 
meanwhile, in patients with cholelithiasis members of the families 
Bacteroidaceae, Prevotellaceae, Porphyromonadaceae, and Veillonellaceae were 
more frequently detected. Furthermore, the metabolomics analysis showed that the 
two study groups have different metabolic profiles.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the gallbladder of human individuals, 
without diagnosed hepatobiliary pathology, harbors a microbial ecosystem that is 
described for the first time in this study. Its bacterial representatives and 
metabolites are different from those detected in people suffering from 
cholelithiasis. In this regard, since liver donors have been subjected to the 
specific conditions of the hospital's intensive care unit, including an 
antibiotic treatment, we must be cautious in stating that their bile samples 
contain a physiologically normal biliary microbiome. In any case, our results 
open up new possibilities to discover bacterial functions in a microbial 
ecosystem that has not previously been explored.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-019-0712-8
PMCID: PMC6610825
PMID: 31272480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declared that they have no competing 
interests.


8. Microbiome. 2017 Aug 24;5(1):107. doi: 10.1186/s40168-017-0319-x.

Early gut mycobiota and mother-offspring transfer.

Schei K(1), Avershina E(2), Øien T(3), Rudi K(2), Follestad T(3), Salamati S(4), 
Ødegård RA(5)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU - Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology, Postboks 8905, 7491, Trondheim, Norway. kasperschei@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, NMBU - Norway 
University of Life Sciences, Ås, Norway.
(3)Department of Public Health and Nursing, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Science, NTNU - Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, 
Norway.
(4)ObeCe - Regional Centre for Obesity Research and Innovation, St. Olav's 
University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Children's and Women's Health, Faculty of 
Medicine and Health Sciences, NTNU - Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology, Postboks 8905, 7491, Trondheim, Norway.

BACKGROUND: The fungi in the gastrointestinal tract, the gut mycobiota, are now 
recognised as a significant part of the gut microbiota, and they may be 
important to human health. In contrast to the adult gut mycobiota, the 
establishment of the early gut mycobiota has never been described, and there is 
little knowledge about the fungal transfer from mother to offspring.
METHODS: In a prospective cohort, we followed 298 pairs of healthy mothers and 
offspring from 36 weeks of gestation until 2 years of age (1516 samples) and 
explored the gut mycobiota in maternal and offspring samples. Half of the 
pregnant mothers were randomised into drinking probiotic milk during and after 
pregnancy. The probiotic bacteria included Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG), 
Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis Bb-12 and Lactobacillus acidophilus La-5. 
We quantified the fungal abundance of all the samples using qPCR of the fungal 
internal transcribed spacer (ITS)1 segment, and we sequenced the 18S rRNA gene 
ITS1 region of 90 high-quantity samples using the MiSeq platform (Illumina).
RESULTS: The gut mycobiota was detected in most of the mothers and the majority 
of the offspring. The offspring showed increased odds of having detectable 
faecal fungal DNA if the mother had detectable fungal DNA as well (OR = 1.54, 
p = 0.04). The fungal alpha diversity in the offspring gut increased from its 
lowest at 10 days after birth, which was the earliest sampling point. The fungal 
diversity and fungal species showed a succession towards the maternal mycobiota 
as the child aged, with Debaryomyces hansenii being the most abundant species 
during breast-feeding and Saccharomyces cerevisiae as the most abundant after 
weaning. Probiotic consumption increased the gut mycobiota abundance in pregnant 
mothers (p = 0.01).
CONCLUSION: This study provides the first insight into the early fungal 
establishment and the succession of fungal species in the gut mycobiota. The 
results support the idea that the fungal host phenotype is transferred from 
mother to offspring.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT00159523.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-017-0319-x
PMCID: PMC5571498
PMID: 28837002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study was approved by the Regional Committee for Medical and Health Research 
Ethics for Central Norway (ref: 120-2000 and 2014/1796/REK midt) and the 
Norwegian Data Inspectorate (ref: 2003/953-3 KBE/-). At least one of each 
child’s parent was informed and signed an informed consent form. CONSENT FOR 
PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they 
have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral 
with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


9. mSphere. 2018 Mar 28;3(2):e00092-18. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00092-18. eCollection 
2018 Mar-Apr.

Investigating Colonization of the Healthy Adult Gastrointestinal Tract by Fungi.

Auchtung TA(1), Fofanova TY(1), Stewart CJ(1), Nash AK(1), Wong MC(1), Gesell 
JR(1), Auchtung JM(1), Ajami NJ(1), Petrosino JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Alkek Center for Metagenomics and Microbiome Research, Department of 
Molecular Virology and Microbiology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, 
USA.

A wide diversity of fungi have been detected in the human gastrointestinal (GI) 
tract with the potential to provide or influence important functions. However, 
many of the fungi most commonly detected in stool samples are also present in 
food or the oral cavity. Therefore, to recognize which gut fungi are likely to 
have a sustained influence on human health, there is a need to separate 
transient members of the GI tract from true colonizers. To identify colonizing 
fungi, the eukaryotic rRNA operon's second internal transcribed spacer (ITS2) 
was sequenced from the stool, saliva, and food of healthy adults following 
consumption of different controlled diets. Unlike most bacterial 16S rRNA genes, 
the only fungal ITS2 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) detected in stool DNA 
across multiple diets were also present in saliva and/or food. Additional 
analyses, including culture-based approaches and sequencing of the 18S rRNA 
gene, ITS2 cDNA, and DNA extracted using alternative methods, failed to detect 
additional fungi. Two abundant fungi, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida 
albicans, were examined further in healthy volunteers. Saccharomyces became 
undetectable in stool when a S. cerevisiae-free diet was consumed, and the 
levels of C. albicans in stool were dramatically reduced by more frequent 
cleaning of teeth. Extremely low fungal abundance, the inability of fungi to 
grow under conditions mimicking the distal gut, and evidence from analysis of 
other public datasets further support the hypothesis that fungi do not routinely 
colonize the GI tracts of healthy adults. IMPORTANCE We sought to identify the 
fungi that colonize healthy GI tracts and that have a sustained influence on the 
diverse functions of the gut microbiome. Instead, we found that all fungi in the 
stool of healthy volunteers could be explained by their presence in oral and 
dietary sources and that our results, together with those from other analyses, 
support the model that there is little or no gastrointestinal colonization by 
fungi. This may be due to Westernization, primate evolution, fungal ecology, 
and/or the strong defenses of a healthy immune system. Importantly, fungal 
colonization of the GI tract may often be indicative of disease. As fungi can 
cause serious infections in immunocompromised individuals and are found at 
increased abundance in multiple disorders of the GI tract, understanding normal 
fungal colonization is essential for proper treatment and prevention of fungal 
pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00092-18
PMCID: PMC5874442
PMID: 29600282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2012 Dec;82(3):642-52. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01441.x. Epub 2012 Jul 23.

A comparison of the microbiome and the metabolome of different regions of the 
equine hindgut.

Dougal K(1), Harris PA, Edwards A, Pachebat JA, Blackmore TM, Worgan HJ, Newbold 
CJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Environmental and Rural Sciences, Aberystwyth 
University, Penglais, Aberystwyth, Ceredigion, UK. kkd09@aber.ac.uk

The microbiome and associated metabolome of faecal samples were compared to 
those from the caecum and right dorsal colon of horses and ponies euthanised for 
nonresearch purposes by investigating the microbial population community 
structure as well as their functional metabolic products. Through the use of 16S 
rRNA gene dendrograms, the caecum microbiome was shown to cluster separately 
from the other gut regions. 16S rRNA gene-based quantitative PCR (q-PCR) also 
demonstrated differences between the caecum and the other gut regions. 
Metabolites as identified by Fourier transform infrared clustered in a similar 
way and specific metabolic products (volatile fatty acids and ammonia) also 
varied by region. Protozoal 18S rDNA concentration and archaeal mcrA gene 
concentration quantified by q-PCR were found in higher numbers in the colon than 
the other gut regions. Diversity calculations using Simpson and Shannon-Wiener 
indices demonstrated higher diversity in the right dorsal colon and faeces than 
in the caecum. All findings of this study suggest that faecal samples are likely 
to represent the microbial population of the right dorsal colon to some extent 
but not that of the caecum, indicating careful consideration is required when 
planning microbial investigations of the hindgut of the horse.

© 2012 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Blackwell 
Publishing Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01441.x
PMID: 22757649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Eur Respir J. 2018 Jul 27;52(1):1800766. doi: 10.1183/13993003.00766-2018. Print 
2018 Jul.

Immunological corollary of the pulmonary mycobiome in bronchiectasis: the CAMEB 
study.

Mac Aogáin M(1)(2), Chandrasekaran R(1)(2), Lim AYH(3), Low TB(4), Tan GL(5), 
Hassan T(6), Ong TH(5), Hui Qi Ng A(7), Bertrand D(7), Koh JY(7), Pang SL(8)(9), 
Lee ZY(8), Gwee XW(8), Martinus C(8), Sio YY(8), Matta SA(8), Chew FT(8), Keir 
HR(10), Connolly JE(11), Abisheganaden JA(3), Koh MS(5), Nagarajan N(7), 
Chalmers JD(10), Chotirmall SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore.
(2)These two authors contributed equally to this work.
(3)Dept of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Tan Tock Seng Hospital, 
Singapore.
(4)Dept of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Changi General Hospital, 
Singapore.
(5)Dept of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Singapore General Hospital, 
Singapore.
(6)Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(7)Genome Institute of Singapore, A*STAR, Singapore.
(8)Dept of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore, Singapore.
(9)Institute of Systems Biology, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Bangi, 
Malaysia.
(10)Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.
(11)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, A*STAR, Singapore.

Understanding the composition and clinical importance of the fungal mycobiome 
was recently identified as a key topic in a "research priorities" consensus 
statement for bronchiectasis.Patients were recruited as part of the CAMEB study: 
an international multicentre cross-sectional Cohort of Asian and Matched 
European Bronchiectasis patients. The mycobiome was determined in 238 patients 
by targeted amplicon shotgun sequencing of the 18S-28S rRNA internally 
transcribed spacer regions ITS1 and ITS2. Specific quantitative PCR for 
detection of and conidial quantification for a range of airway Aspergillus 
species was performed. Sputum galactomannan, Aspergillus specific IgE, IgG and 
TARC (thymus and activation regulated chemokine) levels were measured 
systemically and associated to clinical outcomes.The bronchiectasis mycobiome is 
distinct and characterised by specific fungal genera, including Aspergillus, 
Cryptococcus and ClavisporaAspergillus fumigatus (in Singapore/Kuala Lumpur) and 
Aspergillus terreus (in Dundee) dominated profiles, the latter associating with 
exacerbations. High frequencies of Aspergillus-associated disease including 
sensitisation and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis were detected. Each 
revealed distinct mycobiome profiles, and associated with more severe disease, 
poorer pulmonary function and increased exacerbations.The pulmonary mycobiome is 
of clinical relevance in bronchiectasis. Screening for Aspergillus-associated 
disease should be considered even in apparently stable patients.

Copyright ©ERS 2018.

DOI: 10.1183/13993003.00766-2018
PMCID: PMC6092680
PMID: 29880655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: F.T. Chew reports personal 
fees from Sime Darby Technology Center, Olam International and First Resources 
Ltd, outside the submitted work. J.D. Chalmers reports grants from AstraZeneca, 
grants and personal fees from GlaxoSmithKline, Boehringer Ingelheim, Pfizer, 
Bayer Healthcare and Grifols, and personal fees from Napp, outside the submitted 
work.


12. Gut. 2019 Jul;68(7):1180-1189. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2018-316106. Epub 2018 Aug 
31.

Population-level analysis of Blastocystis subtype prevalence and variation in 
the human gut microbiota.

Tito RY(1)(2)(3), Chaffron S(4), Caenepeel C(5), Lima-Mendez G(1)(2), Wang 
J(1)(2), Vieira-Silva S(1)(2), Falony G(1)(2), Hildebrand F(6), Darzi Y(1)(2), 
Rymenans L(1)(2), Verspecht C(1)(2), Bork P(6)(7)(8), Vermeire S(5), Joossens 
M(1)(2), Raes J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Rega Institute, KU Leuven, 
University of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(2)VIB, Center for Microbiology, Leuven, Belgium.
(3)Research Group of Microbiology, Department of Bioengineering Sciences, Vrije 
Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium.
(4)Laboratoire des Sciences du Numérique de Nantes (LS2N), CNRS UMR 6004, 
Université de Nantes, École Centrale de Nantes, Nantes, France.
(5)Translational Research Center for Gastrointestinal Disorders (TARGID), KU 
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(6)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany.
(7)Max Delbrück Centre for Molecular Medicine, Berlin, Germany.
(8)Department of Bioinformatics, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Human gut microbiome studies are mainly bacteria- and 
archaea-oriented, overlooking the presence of single-cell eukaryotes such as 
Blastocystis, an enteric stramenopiles with worldwide distribution. Here, we 
surveyed the prevalence and subtype variation of Blastocystis in faecal samples 
collected as part of the Flemish Gut Flora Project (FGFP), a Western population 
cohort. We assessed potential links between Blastocystis subtypes and identified 
microbiota-host covariates and quantified microbiota differentiation relative to 
subtype abundances.
DESIGN: We profiled stool samples from 616 healthy individuals from the FGFP 
cohort as well as 107 patients with IBD using amplicon sequencing targeting the 
V4 variable region of the 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes. We evaluated associations 
of Blastocystis, and their subtypes, with host parameters, diversity and 
composition of bacterial and archaeal communities.
RESULTS: Blastocystis prevalence in the non-clinical population cohort was 30% 
compared with 4% among Flemish patients with IBD. Within the FGFP cohort, out of 
69 previously identified gut microbiota covariates, only age was associated with 
Blastocystis subtype carrier status. In contrast, a strong association between 
microbiota community composition and Blastocystis subtypes was observed, with 
effect sizes larger than that of host covariates. Microbial richness and 
diversity were linked to both Blastocystis prevalence and subtype variation. All 
Blastocystis subtypes detected in this cohort were found to be less prevalent in 
Bacteroides enterotyped samples. Interestingly, Blastocystis subtypes 3 and 4 
were inversely correlated with Akkermansia, suggesting differential associations 
of subtypes with host health.
CONCLUSIONS: These results emphasise the role of Blastocystis as a common 
constituent of the healthy gut microbiota. We show its prevalence is reduced in 
patients with active IBD and demonstrate that subtype characterisation is 
essential for assessing the relationship between Blastocystis, microbiota 
profile and host health. These findings have direct clinical applications, 
especially in donor selection for faecal transplantation.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2019. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2018-316106
PMCID: PMC6582744
PMID: 30171064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


13. Environ Sci Process Impacts. 2016 Jun 15;18(6):713-24. doi: 10.1039/c5em00639b. 
Epub 2016 May 23.

Characterization of the bacterial and fungal microbiome in indoor dust and 
outdoor air samples: a pilot study.

Hanson B(1), Zhou Y, Bautista EJ, Urch B, Speck M, Silverman F, Muilenberg M, 
Phipatanakul W, Weinstock G, Sodergren E, Gold DR, Sordillo JE.

Author information:
(1)Jackson Laboratory, Farmington, CT, USA.

Environmental microbes have been associated with both protective and adverse 
health effects in children and adults. Epidemiological studies often rely on 
broad biomarkers of microbial exposure (i.e. endotoxin, 1 → 3-beta-d-glucan), 
but fail to identify the taxonomic composition of the microbial community. Our 
aim was to characterize the bacterial and fungal microbiome in different types 
of environmental samples collected in studies of human health effects. We 
determined the composition of microbial communities present in home, school and 
outdoor air samples by amplifying and sequencing regions of rRNA genes from 
bacteria (16S) and fungi (18S and ITS). Samples for this pilot study included 
indoor settled dust (from both a Boston area birth cohort study on Home 
Allergens and Asthma (HAA) (n = 12) and a study of school exposures and asthma 
symptoms (SICAS) (n = 1)), as well as fine and coarse concentrated outdoor 
ambient particulate (CAP) samples (n = 9). Sequencing of amplified 16S, 18S, and 
ITS regions was performed on the Roche-454 Life Sciences Titanium pyrosequencing 
platform. Indoor dust samples were dominated by Gram-positive bacteria 
(Firmicutes and Actinobacteria); the most abundant bacterial genera were those 
related to human flora (Streptococcus, Staphylococcus, Corynebacterium and 
Lactobacillus). Outdoor CAPs were dominated by Gram-negative Proteobacteria from 
water and soil sources, in particular the genera Acidovorax, and Brevundimonas 
(which were present at very low levels or entirely absent in indoor dust). 
Phylum-level fungal distributions identified by 18S or ITS regions showed very 
similar findings: a predominance of Ascomycota in indoor dust and Basidiomycota 
in outdoor CAPs. ITS sequencing of fungal genera in indoor dust showed 
significant proportions of Aureobasidium and Leptosphaerulina along with some 
contribution from Cryptococcus, Epicoccum, Aspergillus and the human commensal 
Malassezia. ITS sequencing detected more than 70 fungal genera in indoor dust 
not observed by culture. Microbiome sequencing is feasible for different types 
of archived environmental samples (indoor dust, and low biomass air particulate 
samples), and offers the potential to study how whole communities of microbes 
(including unculturable taxa) influence human health.

DOI: 10.1039/c5em00639b
PMCID: PMC5015483
PMID: 27213188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Microbiome. 2019 Jun 3;7(1):83. doi: 10.1186/s40168-019-0701-y.

Ruminal microbiome-host crosstalk stimulates the development of the ruminal 
epithelium in a lamb model.

Lin L(1)(2), Xie F(1)(2), Sun D(1)(2), Liu J(1)(2), Zhu W(1)(2), Mao S(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Microbiology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of 
Gastrointestinal Nutrition and Animal Health, College of Animal Science and 
Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, China.
(2)National Center for International Research on Animal Gut Nutrition, Nanjing 
Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, China.
(3)Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Microbiology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of 
Gastrointestinal Nutrition and Animal Health, College of Animal Science and 
Technology, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, China. 
maoshengyong@njau.edu.cn.
(4)National Center for International Research on Animal Gut Nutrition, Nanjing 
Agricultural University, Nanjing, 210095, China. maoshengyong@njau.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: The development of the rumen is an important physiological challenge 
for young ruminants. Previous studies have shown that starter feeding can 
effectively facilitate the growth and development of the rumen in ruminants. 
However, the mechanism through which starter feeding stimulates the development 
of the rumen is not clear. Here, we performed an integrated analysis in ruminal 
microbiota and a host transcriptomic profile in a lamb model with the 
intervention of starter feed to understand the ruminal microbiome-host crosstalk 
in stimulating the development of the ruminal epithelium.
RESULTS: Decreased ruminal pH and increased acetate and butyrate concentrations 
in the rumen, followed by increasing rumen organ index, were observed in lambs 
supplemented with starter. Using metagenome sequencing in combination with 16S 
rRNA and 18S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, the results showed the abundance of 
acetate-producing Mitsuokella spp., lactate-producing Sharpea spp., 
lactate-utilizing Megasphaera spp., and Entodinium spp. was enriched in rumen 
microbial communities in the starter-feed group. The abundances of genes 
involved in sugar degradation were decreased in starter-feed lambs, but the GH13 
encoding α-amylase was obviously increased. Rumen epithelial transcriptome 
analysis revealed that seven differentially expressed genes, including MAPK1, 
PIK3CB, TNFSF10, ITGA6, SNAI2, SAV1, and DLG, related to the cell growth module 
were upregulated, and BAD's promotion of cell death was downregulated. 
Correlation analysis revealed that the increase in the concentrations of acetate 
and butyrate significantly correlated with the expression of these genes, which 
indicates acetate and butyrate likely acted as important drivers in the ruminal 
microbiome-host crosstalk.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study comprehensively describes the symbiotic 
relationship between the rumen microbiota and the host in lambs after starter 
feeding. Our data demonstrates that the microbiome-driven generation of acetate 
and butyrate mediated the growth-related genes' regulation of the 
growth-associated signalling pathway in the ruminal epithelium. These 
co-development networks regulated many physiological processes in the 
epithelium, including papillae morphology and rumen epithelial growth.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-019-0701-y
PMCID: PMC6547527
PMID: 31159860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


15. Microbiome. 2017 Mar 23;5(1):38. doi: 10.1186/s40168-017-0257-7.

Symbiosis and microbiome flexibility in calcifying benthic foraminifera of the 
Great Barrier Reef.

Prazeres M(1), Ainsworth T(2), Roberts TE(2), Pandolfi JM(3), Leggat W(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary Sciences, James Cook 
University, Townsville, QLD, 4811, Australia. 
martina.defreitasprazeres@jcu.edu.au.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University, 
Townsville, QLD, 4811, Australia.
(3)ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies and School of Biological 
Sciences, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia, QLD, 4072, Australia.
(4)College of Public Health, Medical and Veterinary Sciences, James Cook 
University, Townsville, QLD, 4811, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Symbiosis is a phenomenon that allows organisms to colonise a wide 
range of environments and occupy a variety of ecological niches in marine 
environments. Large benthic foraminifera (LBF) are crucial marine calcifiers 
that rely on photo-endosymbionts for growth and calcification, yet the influence 
of environmental conditions in shaping their interactions with prokaryotic and 
eukaryotic associates is poorly known.
RESULTS: Here, we used next-generation sequencing to identify eukaryotic 
photosynthesizing and prokaryotic microbes associated with the common LBF 
Amphistegina lobifera across a physio-chemical gradient on the Great Barrier 
Reef (GBR). We collected samples from three reef sites located in the inner-, 
mid- and outer-shelf regions of the northern section of the GBR. Results showed 
the consistent presence of Bacillaryophyta as the main eukaryotic taxa 
associated with A. lobifera across all reef sites analysed; however, the 
abundance and the diversity of prokaryotic organisms varied among reef sites. 
Inner-shelf specimens showed the highest diversity of prokaryote associates, 
with a total of 231 genotypes in their core microbiome. A total of 30 taxa were 
identified in the core microbiome across all reef sites. Within these taxa, 
Proteobacteria was the most abundant bacteria present. The presence of groups 
such as Actinobacteria was significantly correlated with inner-shelf 
populations, whereas the abundance of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes was 
associated with A. lobifera collected from mid- and outer-shelf reef sites.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that benthic foraminifera form stable and persistent 
symbiosis with eukaryotic partners, but flexible and site-specific associations 
with prokaryotic microbes that likely influence the ecological success of these 
crucial calcifying organisms on the GBR.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-017-0257-7
PMCID: PMC5364595
PMID: 28335814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2018 Aug;142(2):424-434.e10. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2017.08.041. Epub 2017 Dec 11.

Associations between infant fungal and bacterial dysbiosis and childhood atopic 
wheeze in a nonindustrialized setting.

Arrieta MC(1), Arévalo A(2), Stiemsma L(3), Dimitriu P(4), Chico ME(5), Loor 
S(5), Vaca M(5), Boutin RCT(6), Morien E(7), Jin M(8), Turvey SE(9), Walter 
J(8), Parfrey LW(7), Cooper PJ(10), Finlay B(11).

Author information:
(1)Michael Smith Laboratories and the Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Department 
of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada; 
Department of Pediatrics, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Medicas, de la Salud y la Vida, Universidad 
Internacional del Ecuador, Quito, Ecuador.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, BC Children's Hospital, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Department of Epidemiology, 
Fielding School of Public Health, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, Calif.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(5)Fundación Ecuatoriana Para Investigación en Salud, Quito, Ecuador.
(6)Michael Smith Laboratories and the Department of Microbiology and Immunology, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(7)Departments of Zoology and Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(8)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Sciences, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
(9)Department of Pediatrics, BC Children's Hospital, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(10)Facultad de Ciencias Medicas, de la Salud y la Vida, Universidad 
Internacional del Ecuador, Quito, Ecuador; Fundación Ecuatoriana Para 
Investigación en Salud, Quito, Ecuador; Institute of Infection and Immunity, St 
George's University of London, London, United Kingdom.
(11)Michael Smith Laboratories and the Department of Microbiology and 
Immunology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. 
Electronic address: bfinlay@msl.ubc.ca.

BACKGROUND: Asthma is the most prevalent chronic disease of childhood. Recently, 
we identified a critical window early in the life of both mice and Canadian 
infants during which gut microbial changes (dysbiosis) affect asthma 
development. Given geographic differences in human gut microbiota worldwide, we 
studied the effects of gut microbial dysbiosis on atopic wheeze in a population 
living in a distinct developing world environment.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine whether microbial alterations in early infancy 
are associated with the development of atopic wheeze in a nonindustrialized 
setting.
METHODS: We conducted a case-control study nested within a birth cohort from 
rural Ecuador in which we identified 27 children with atopic wheeze and 70 
healthy control subjects at 5 years of age. We analyzed bacterial and eukaryotic 
gut microbiota in stool samples collected at 3 months of age using 16S and 18S 
sequencing. Bacterial metagenomes were predicted from 16S rRNA data by using 
Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States 
and categorized by function with Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes 
ontology. Concentrations of fecal short-chain fatty acids were determined by 
using gas chromatography.
RESULTS: As previously observed in Canadian infants, microbial dysbiosis at 
3 months of age was associated with later development of atopic wheeze. However, 
the dysbiosis in Ecuadorian babies involved different bacterial taxa, was more 
pronounced, and also involved several fungal taxa. Predicted metagenomic 
analysis emphasized significant dysbiosis-associated differences in genes 
involved in carbohydrate and taurine metabolism. Levels of the fecal short-chain 
fatty acids acetate and caproate were reduced and increased, respectively, in 
the 3-month stool samples of children who went on to have atopic wheeze.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the importance of fungal and bacterial 
microbiota during the first 100 days of life on the development of atopic wheeze 
and provide additional support for considering modulation of the gut microbiome 
as a primary asthma prevention strategy.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2017.08.041
PMCID: PMC6075469
PMID: 29241587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Sci Rep. 2017 Jun 16;7(1):3703. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-03804-8.

Dysbiosis in chronic periodontitis: Key microbial players and interactions with 
the human host.

Deng ZL(1), Szafrański SP(2), Jarek M(3), Bhuju S(3), Wagner-Döbler I(4).

Author information:
(1)Research Group Microbial Communication, Department of Molecular Infection 
Biology, Helmholtz-Centre for Infection Research (HZI), Braunschweig, Germany.
(2)Hannover Medical School (MHH), Hannover, Germany.
(3)Genome Analytics, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Braunschweig, 
Germany.
(4)Research Group Microbial Communication, Department of Molecular Infection 
Biology, Helmholtz-Centre for Infection Research (HZI), Braunschweig, Germany. 
Irene.Wagner-Doebler@helmholtz-hzi.de.

Periodontitis is an extremely prevalent disease worldwide and is driven by 
complex dysbiotic microbiota. Here we analyzed the transcriptional activity of 
the periodontal pocket microbiota from all domains of life as well as the human 
host in health and chronic periodontitis. Bacteria showed strong enrichment of 
18 KEGG functional modules in chronic periodontitis, including bacterial 
chemotaxis, flagellar assembly, type III secretion system, type III CRISPR-Cas 
system, and two component system proteins. Upregulation of these functions was 
driven by the red-complex pathogens and candidate pathogens, e.g. Filifactor 
alocis, Prevotella intermedia, Fretibacterium fastidiosum and Selenomonas 
sputigena. Nine virulence factors were strongly up-regulated, among them the 
arginine deiminase arcA from Porphyromonas gingivalis and Mycoplasma arginini. 
Viruses and archaea accounted for about 0.1% and 0.22% of total putative mRNA 
reads, respectively, and a protozoan, Entamoeba gingivalis, was highly enriched 
in periodontitis. Fourteen human transcripts were enriched in periodontitis, 
including a gene for a ferric iron binding protein, indicating competition with 
the microbiota for iron, and genes associated with cancer, namely nucleolar 
phosphoprotein B23, ankyrin-repeat domain 30B-like protein and beta-enolase. The 
data provide evidence on the level of gene expression in vivo for the 
potentially severe impact of the dysbiotic microbiota on human health.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-03804-8
PMCID: PMC5473847
PMID: 28623321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


18. Microbiome. 2018 Jun 19;6(1):110. doi: 10.1186/s40168-018-0491-7.

Absolute quantitation of microbiota abundance in environmental samples.

Tkacz A(1), Hortala M(1), Poole PS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, 
OX1 3RB, UK.
(2)Department of Plant Sciences, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, 
OX1 3RB, UK. philip.poole@plants.ox.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Microbial communities (microbiota) influence human and animal 
disease and immunity, geochemical nutrient cycling and plant productivity. 
Specific groups, including bacteria, archaea, eukaryotes or fungi, are amplified 
by PCR to assess the relative abundance of sub-groups (e.g. genera). However, 
neither the absolute abundance of sub-groups is revealed, nor can different 
amplicon families (i.e. OTUs derived from a specific pair of PCR primers such as 
bacterial 16S, eukaryotic 18S or fungi ITS) be compared. This prevents 
determination of the absolute abundance of a particular group and domain-level 
shifts in microbiota abundance can remain undetected.
RESULTS: We have developed absolute quantitation of amplicon families using 
synthetic chimeric DNA spikes. Synthetic spikes were added directly to 
environmental samples, co-isolated and PCR-amplified, allowing calculation of 
the absolute abundance of amplicon families (e.g. prokaryotic 16S, eukaryotic 
18S and fungal ITS per unit mass of sample).
CONCLUSIONS: Spikes can be adapted to any amplicon-specific group including 
rhizobia from soils, Firmicutes and Bifidobacteria from human gut or 
Enterobacteriaceae from food samples. Crucially, using highly complex soil 
samples, we show that the absolute abundance of specific groups can remain 
steady or increase, even when their relative abundance decreases. Thus, without 
absolute quantitation, the underlying pathology, physiology and ecology of 
microbial groups may be masked by their relative abundance.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-018-0491-7
PMCID: PMC6009823
PMID: 29921326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


19. Gigascience. 2017 Oct 1;6(10):1-12. doi: 10.1093/gigascience/gix089.

Taxonomic structure and functional association of foxtail millet root 
microbiome.

Jin T(1)(2), Wang Y(1), Huang Y(1), Xu J(1)(3), Zhang P(1)(4), Wang N(3), Liu 
X(1)(2), Chu H(5), Liu G(1), Jiang H(1), Li Y(1), Xu J(1), Kristiansen K(1)(6), 
Xiao L(1), Zhang Y(3), Zhang G(1), Du G(1), Zhang H(1), Zou H(1)(7), Zhang H(1), 
Jie Z(1), Liang S(1), Jia H(1), Wan J(1), Lin D(1), Li J(1), Fan G(1)(2), Yang 
H(1)(8), Wang J(1)(8), Bai Y(9)(10)(11), Xu X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)BGI-Qingdao, Qingdao, 266510, China.
(2)China National Genebank-Shenzhen, BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen, 518083, China.
(3)Citrus Research and Education Center, Department of Microbiology and Cell 
Science, IFAS, University of Florida, Lake Alfred, FL, USA.
(4)BGI Education Center, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shenzhen, 
518083, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Soil and Sustainable Agriculture, Institute of Soil 
Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, East Beijing Road 71, Nanjing, 210008, 
China.
(6)Laboratory of Genomics and Molecular Biomedicine, Department of Biology, 
University of Copenhagen, DK-2100, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)BGI Millet Co., Ltd, Shenzhen, 518083, China.
(8)James D. Watson Institute of Genome Sciences, Hangzhou 310058, China.
(9)State Key Laboratory of Plant Genomics, Institute of Genetics and 
Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Science, Beijing, 100101, China.
(10)Centre of Excellence for Plant and Microbial Sciences (CEPAMS), Institute of 
Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Science & John Innes 
Centre, Beijing, 100101, China.
(11)The University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.

Erratum in
    Gigascience. 2018 Nov 1;7(11):

The root microbes play pivotal roles in plant productivity, nutrient uptakes, 
and disease resistance. The root microbial community structure has been 
extensively investigated by 16S/18S/ITS amplicons and metagenomic sequencing in 
crops and model plants. However, the functional associations between root 
microbes and host plant growth are poorly understood. This work investigates the 
root bacterial community of foxtail millet (Setaria italica) and its potential 
effects on host plant productivity. We determined the bacterial composition of 
2882 samples from foxtail millet rhizoplane, rhizosphere and corresponding bulk 
soils from 2 well-separated geographic locations by 16S rRNA gene amplicon 
sequencing. We identified 16 109 operational taxonomic units (OTUs), and defined 
187 OTUs as shared rhizoplane core OTUs. The β-diversity analysis revealed that 
microhabitat was the major factor shaping foxtail millet root bacterial 
community, followed by geographic locations. Large-scale association analysis 
identified the potential beneficial bacteria correlated with plant high 
productivity. Besides, the functional prediction revealed specific pathways 
enriched in foxtail millet rhizoplane bacterial community. We systematically 
described the root bacterial community structure of foxtail millet and found its 
core rhizoplane bacterial members. Our results demonstrated that host plants 
enrich specific bacteria and functions in the rhizoplane. The potentially 
beneficial bacteria may serve as a valuable knowledge foundation for 
bio-fertilizer development in agriculture.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/gigascience/gix089
PMCID: PMC7059795
PMID: 29050374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Front Microbiol. 2017 May 2;8:738. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00738. eCollection 
2017.

Colonization and Succession within the Human Gut Microbiome by Archaea, 
Bacteria, and Microeukaryotes during the First Year of Life.

Wampach L(1), Heintz-Buschart A(1), Hogan A(2), Muller EEL(1), Narayanasamy 
S(1), Laczny CC(1), Hugerth LW(3), Bindl L(4), Bottu J(4), Andersson AF(3), de 
Beaufort C(1)(4), Wilmes P(1).

Author information:
(1)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of 
LuxembourgEsch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg.
(2)Integrated BioBank of LuxembourgLuxembourg, Luxembourg.
(3)Science for Life Laboratory, Division of Gene Technology, School of 
Biotechnology, Royal Institute of TechnologyStockholm, Sweden.
(4)Centre Hospitalier de LuxembourgLuxembourg, Luxembourg.

Perturbations to the colonization process of the human gastrointestinal tract 
have been suggested to result in adverse health effects later in life. Although 
much research has been performed on bacterial colonization and succession, much 
less is known about the other two domains of life, archaea, and eukaryotes. Here 
we describe colonization and succession by bacteria, archaea and microeukaryotes 
during the first year of life (samples collected around days 1, 3, 5, 28, 150, 
and 365) within the gastrointestinal tract of infants delivered either vaginally 
or by cesarean section and using a combination of quantitative real-time PCR as 
well as 16S and 18S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Sequences from organisms 
belonging to all three domains of life were detectable in all of the collected 
meconium samples. The microeukaryotic community composition fluctuated strongly 
over time and early diversification was delayed in infants receiving formula 
milk. Cesarean section-delivered (CSD) infants experienced a delay in 
colonization and succession, which was observed for all three domains of life. 
Shifts in prokaryotic succession in CSD infants compared to vaginally delivered 
(VD) infants were apparent as early as days 3 and 5, which were characterized by 
increased relative abundances of the genera Streptococcus and Staphylococcus, 
and a decrease in relative abundance for the genera Bifidobacterium and 
Bacteroides. Generally, a depletion in Bacteroidetes was detected as early as 
day 5 postpartum in CSD infants, causing a significantly increased 
Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio between days 5 and 150 when compared to VD 
infants. Although the delivery mode appeared to have the strongest influence on 
differences between the infants, other factors such as a younger gestational age 
or maternal antibiotics intake likely contributed to the observed patterns as 
well. Our findings complement previous observations of a delay in colonization 
and succession of CSD infants, which affects not only bacteria but also archaea 
and microeukaryotes. This further highlights the need for resolving bacterial, 
archaeal, and microeukaryotic dynamics in future longitudinal studies of 
microbial colonization and succession within the neonatal gastrointestinal 
tract.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.00738
PMCID: PMC5411419
PMID: 28512451


21. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2019 Apr 18;85(9):e02994-18. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02994-18. 
Print 2019 May 1.

Mycobiome Profiles in Breast Milk from Healthy Women Depend on Mode of Delivery, 
Geographic Location, and Interaction with Bacteria.

Boix-Amorós A(1)(2), Puente-Sánchez F(3), du Toit E(4), Linderborg KM(5), Zhang 
Y(6), Yang B(5), Salminen S(7), Isolauri E(8), Tamames J(3), Mira A(9), Collado 
MC(10)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Agrochemistry and Food 
Technology-National Research Council (IATA-CSIC), Valencia, Spain.
(2)Department of Health and Genomics, Center for Advanced Research in Public 
Health, FISABIO Foundation, Valencia, Spain.
(3)Systems Biology Program, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, Consejo Superior 
de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Madrid, Spain.
(4)Division of Medical Microbiology, Department of Pathology, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(5)Food Chemistry and Food Development, Department of Biochemistry, University 
of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(6)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, China.
(7)Functional Foods Forum, Faculty of Medicine, University of Turku, Turku, 
Finland.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, University of Turku and Turku University Hospital, 
Turku, Finland.
(9)Department of Health and Genomics, Center for Advanced Research in Public 
Health, FISABIO Foundation, Valencia, Spain mira_ale@gva.es mcolam@iata.csic.es.
(10)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Agrochemistry and Food 
Technology-National Research Council (IATA-CSIC), Valencia, Spain 
mira_ale@gva.es mcolam@iata.csic.es.

Recent studies report the presence of fungal species in breast milk of healthy 
mothers, suggesting a potential role in infant mycobiome development. In the 
present work, we aimed to determine whether the healthy human breast milk 
mycobiota is influenced by geographical location and mode of delivery, as well 
as to investigate its interaction with bacterial profiles in the same samples. A 
total of 80 mature breast milk samples from 4 different countries were analyzed 
by Illumina sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) region, 
joining the 18S and 5.8S regions of the fungal rRNA region. Basidiomycota and 
Ascomycota were found to be the dominant phyla, with Malassezia and Davidiella 
being the most prevalent genera across countries. A core formed by Malassezia, 
Davidiella, Sistotrema, and Penicillium was shared in the milk samples from the 
different origins, although specific shifts in mycobiome composition were 
associated with geographic location and delivery mode. The presence of fungi in 
the breast milk samples was further confirmed by culture and isolate 
characterization, and fungal loads were estimated by quantitative PCR (qPCR) 
targeting the fungal ITS1 region. Cooccurrence network analysis of bacteria and 
fungi showed complex interactions that were influenced by geographical location, 
mode of delivery, maternal age, and pregestational body mass index. The presence 
of a breast milk mycobiome was confirmed in all samples analyzed, regardless of 
the geographic origin.IMPORTANCE During recent years, human breast milk has been 
documented as a potential source of bacteria for the newborn. Recently, we have 
reported the presence of fungi in breast milk from healthy mothers. It is well 
known that environmental and perinatal factors can affect milk bacteria; 
however, the impact on milk fungi is still unknown. The current report describes 
fungal communities (mycobiota) in breast milk samples across different 
geographic locations and the influence of the mode of delivery. We also provide 
novel insights on bacterium-fungus interactions, taking into account 
environmental and perinatal factors. We identified a core of four genera shared 
across locations, consisting of Malassezia, Davidiella, Sistotrema, and 
Penicillium, which have been reported to be present in the infant gut. Our data 
confirm the presence of fungi in breast milk across continents and support the 
potential role of breast milk in the initial seeding of fungal species in the 
infant gut.

Copyright © 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02994-18
PMCID: PMC6495746
PMID: 30824446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Dairy Sci. 2018 Mar;101(3):2285-2292. doi: 10.3168/jds.2017-13179. Epub 2017 
Dec 21.

Short communication: Signs of host genetic regulation in the microbiome 
composition in 2 dairy breeds: Holstein and Brown Swiss.

Gonzalez-Recio O(1), Zubiria I(2), García-Rodríguez A(2), Hurtado A(3), 
Atxaerandio R(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Mejora Genética Animal, Instituto Nacional de Investigación y 
Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria, 28040 Madrid, Spain; Departamento de 
Produccion Agraria, Escuela Técnica Superior de Ingeniería Agronómica, 
Alimentaria y de Biosistemas, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Ciudad 
Universitaria s/n, 28040 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
gonzalez.oscar@inia.es.
(2)Departamento de Producción Animal, NEIKER-Tecnalia, Granja Modelo de Arkaute 
Apartado 46, 01080 Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain.
(3)Departamento de Sanidad Animal, NEIKER-Tecnalia, Berreaga 1, 48160 Derio, 
Spain.

This study aimed to evaluate whether the host genotype exerts any genetic 
control on the microbiome composition of the rumen in cattle. Microbial DNA was 
extracted from 18 samples of ruminal content from 2 breeds (Holstein and Brown 
Swiss). Reads were processed using mothur (https://www.mothur.org/) in 16S and 
18S rRNA gene-based analyses. Then, reads were classified at the genus clade, 
resulting in 3,579 operational taxonomic units (OTU) aligned against the 16S 
database and 184 OTU aligned against the 18S database. After filtering on 
relative abundance (>0.1%) and penetrance (95%), 25 OTU were selected for the 
analyses (17 bacteria, 1 archaea, and 7 ciliates). Association with the genetic 
background of the host animal based on the principal components of a genomic 
relationship matrix based on single nucleotide polymorphism markers was analyzed 
using Bayesian methods. Fifty percent of the bacteria and archaea genera were 
associated with the host genetic background, including Butyrivibrio, Prevotella, 
Paraprevotella, and Methanobrevibacter as main genera. Forty-three percent of 
the ciliates analyzed were also associated with the genetic background of the 
host. In total, 48% of microbes were associated with the host genetic 
background. The results in this study support the hypothesis and provide some 
evidence that there exists a host genetic component in cattle that can partially 
regulate the composition of the microbiome.

Copyright © 2018 American Dairy Science Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2017-13179
PMID: 29274973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Mycoses. 2019 Dec;62(12):1096-1099. doi: 10.1111/myc.12999. Epub 2019 Oct 21.

A European ECMM-ESCMID survey on goals and practices for mycobiota 
characterisation using next-generation sequencing.

Gangneux JP(1), Guegan H(1), Vandenborght LE(2), Buffet-Bataillon S(1), Enaud 
R(2), Delhaes L(2).

Author information:
(1)CHU Rennes, Univ Rennes, Inserm, Irset (Institut de Recherche en santé, 
environnement et travail) - UMR_S 1085, Rennes, France.
(2)CHU de Bordeaux, Université de Bordeaux, Inserm, Center for Cardiothoracic 
Research of Bordeaux, U1045, CIC 1401, Bordeaux, France.

Although substantial efforts have been made to investigate about the composition 
of the microbiota, fungi that constitute the mycobiota play a pivotal role in 
maintaining microbial communities and physiological processes in the body. Here, 
we conducted an international survey focusing on laboratory's current procedures 
regarding their goals and practices of mycobiota characterisation using NGS. A 
questionnaire was proposed to laboratories affiliated to working groups from 
ECMM (NGS study group) and ESCMID (ESGHAMI and EFISG study groups). Twenty-six 
questionnaires from 18 countries were received. The use of NGS to characterise 
the mycobiota was not in routine for most of the laboratories (N = 23, 82%), and 
the main reason of using NGS was primary to understand the pathophysiology of a 
dysbiosis (N = 20), to contribute to a diagnosis (N = 16) or to implement a 
therapeutic strategy (N = 12). Other reported reasons were to evaluate the 
exposome (environmental studies) (N = 10) or to investigate epidemics (N = 8). 
Sputum is the main sample studied, and cystic fibrosis represents a major 
disease studied via the analysis of pulmonary microbiota. No consensus has 
emerged for the choice of the targets with 18S, ITS1 and ITS2 used alternatively 
among the laboratories. Other answers are detailed in the manuscript. We report 
a photography of mycobiota analysis that may become a major tool in the near 
future. We can draw some conclusions on the diversity of approaches within the 
answers of the 27 laboratories and underline the need for standardisation.

© 2019 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/myc.12999
PMID: 31498487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Int J Mol Sci. 2019 Jul 25;20(15):3631. doi: 10.3390/ijms20153631.

An Omics Approach to Diagnosing or Investigating Fungal Keratitis.

Kuo MT(1), Chen JL(2), Hsu SL(3), Chen A(4), You HL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang 
Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 83301, Taiwan. 
mingtse@cgmh.org.tw.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital, Kaohsiung 
81362, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Chung-Ho Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung 80756, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang 
Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 83301, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kaohsiung Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and 
Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Kaohsiung 83301, Taiwan. 
youhling@cgmh.org.tw.

Fungal keratitis (FK) is one of the most severe corneal infectious diseases. FK 
often leads to poor visual prognosis and thus requires accurate diagnosis. 
Conventional approaches, including clinical diagnoses, smears, and cultures, 
often fail to provide reliable diagnostic value. Omics approaches, such as those 
using genomic, metagenomic, and tear proteomic data sources, provide promising 
features for improving the diagnosis and monitoring the progression of FK. 
Genomic approaches are based mainly on detecting amplicons of ribosomal RNA 
genes, and internal transcribed spacers are gradually gaining popularity in 
clinical practices. A metagenomic approach based on 16S rRNA genes may help 
monitor the dynamic change of conjunctival microbiota associated with an FK 
event, whereas that based on shot-gun and 18S rRNA target enrichment sequencing 
could have the potential to diagnose FK using clinical samples. A tear proteomic 
approach may provide comprehensive information about ocular surface defense and 
injury during FK. Representative up- and down-regulated proteins during FK could 
also be used as biomarkers to determine the clinical course and develop a 
treatment strategy in different stages of FK. Consequently, a personalized tear 
proteomic approach will soon play a key role in FK management.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms20153631
PMCID: PMC6695605
PMID: 31349542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design or conduct of the study.


25. Water Res. 2019 Aug 1;159:464-479. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2019.04.028. Epub 2019 
Apr 22.

The cooling tower water microbiota: Seasonal dynamics and co-occurrence of 
bacterial and protist phylotypes.

Tsao HF(1), Scheikl U(2), Herbold C(1), Indra A(3), Walochnik J(2), Horn M(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Microbiology and Environmental Systems Science, University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Institute of Specific Prophylaxis and Tropical Medicine, Medical University 
of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(3)Department of Mycobacteriology and Clinical Molecular Biology, AGES, Vienna, 
Austria.
(4)Centre for Microbiology and Environmental Systems Science, University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: horn@microbial-ecology.net.

Cooling towers for heating, ventilation and air conditioning are ubiquitous in 
the built environment. Often located on rooftops, their semi-open water basins 
provide a suitable environment for microbial growth. They are recognized as a 
potential source of bacterial pathogens and have been associated with disease 
outbreaks such as Legionnaires' disease. While measures to minimize public 
health risks are in place, the general microbial and protist community structure 
and dynamics in these systems remain largely elusive. In this study, we analysed 
the microbiome of the bulk water from the basins of three cooling towers by 16S 
and 18S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing over the course of one year. Bacterial 
diversity in all three towers was broadly comparable to other freshwater 
systems, yet less diverse than natural environments; the most abundant taxa are 
also frequently found in freshwater or drinking water. While each cooling tower 
had a pronounced site-specific microbial community, taxa shared among all 
locations mainly included groups generally associated with biofilm formation. We 
also detected several groups related to known opportunistic pathogens, such as 
Legionella, Mycobacterium, and Pseudomonas species, albeit at generally low 
abundance. Although cooling towers represent a rather stable environment, 
microbial community composition was highly dynamic and subject to seasonal 
change. Protists are important members of the cooling tower water microbiome and 
known reservoirs for bacterial pathogens. Co-occurrence analysis of bacteria and 
protist taxa successfully captured known interactions between amoeba-associated 
bacteria and their hosts, and predicted a large number of additional 
relationships involving ciliates and other protists. Together, this study 
provides an unbiased and comprehensive overview of microbial diversity of 
cooling tower water basins, establishing a framework for investigating and 
assessing public health risks associated with these man-made freshwater 
environments.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2019.04.028
PMCID: PMC6554697
PMID: 31128471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jun 3;111(22):8007-12. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1406468111. Epub 2014 May 7.

Simultaneous assessment of the macrobiome and microbiome in a bulk sample of 
tropical arthropods through DNA metasystematics.

Gibson J(1), Shokralla S(2), Porter TM(3), King I(1), van Konynenburg S(1), 
Janzen DH(4), Hallwachs W(5), Hajibabaei M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biology and Biodiversity Institute of Ontario, 
University of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada N1G 2W1;
(2)Department of Integrative Biology and Biodiversity Institute of Ontario, 
University of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada N1G 2W1;Department of Microbiology, 
Mansoura University, Mansoura, Egypt 35516;
(3)Department of Biology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8S 4K1; 
and.
(4)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104 
mhajibab@uoguelph.ca djanzen@sas.upenn.edu.
(5)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104.
(6)Department of Integrative Biology and Biodiversity Institute of Ontario, 
University of Guelph, Guelph, ON, Canada N1G 2W1; mhajibab@uoguelph.ca 
djanzen@sas.upenn.edu.

Conventional assessments of ecosystem sample composition are based on 
morphology-based or DNA barcode identification of individuals. Both approaches 
are costly and time-consuming, especially when applied to the large number of 
specimens and taxa commonly included in ecological investigations. 
Next-generation sequencing approaches can overcome the bottleneck of individual 
specimen isolation and identification by simultaneously sequencing specimens of 
all taxa in a bulk mixture. Here we apply multiple parallel amplification 
primers, multiple DNA barcode markers, 454-pyrosequencing, and Illumina MiSeq 
sequencing to the same sample to maximize recovery of the arthropod macrobiome 
and the bacterial and other microbial microbiome of a bulk arthropod sample. We 
validate this method with a complex sample containing 1,066 morphologically 
distinguishable arthropods from a tropical terrestrial ecosystem with high 
taxonomic diversity. Multiamplicon next-generation DNA barcoding was able to 
recover sequences corresponding to 91% of the distinguishable individuals in a 
bulk environmental sample, as well as many species present as undistinguishable 
tissue. 454-pyrosequencing was able to recover 10 more families of arthropods 
and 30 more species than did conventional Sanger sequencing of each individual 
specimen. The use of other loci (16S and 18S ribosomal DNA gene regions) also 
added the detection of species of microbes associated with these terrestrial 
arthropods. This method greatly decreases the time and money necessary to 
perform DNA-based comparisons of biodiversity among ecosystem samples. This 
methodology opens the door to much cheaper and increased capacity for ecological 
and evolutionary studies applicable to a wide range of socio-economic issues, as 
well as a basic understanding of how the world works.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1406468111
PMCID: PMC4050544
PMID: 24808136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


27. Parasite Epidemiol Control. 2019 Dec 21;9:e00131. doi: 
10.1016/j.parepi.2019.e00131. eCollection 2020 May.

Differentiation of Blastocystis and parasitic archamoebids encountered in 
untreated wastewater samples by amplicon-based next-generation sequencing.

Stensvold CR(1), Lebbad M(2), Hansen A(2), Beser J(2), Belkessa S(1)(3)(4), 
O'Brien Andersen L(1), Clark CG(5).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Parasitology, Department of Bacteria, Parasites and Fungi, 
Statens Serum Institut, Artillerivej 5, DK-2300 Copenhagen S, Denmark.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Public Health Agency of Sweden, SE-171 82 Solna, 
Sweden.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, Faculty of Biological and 
Agronomic Sciences, Mouloud Mammeri University of Tizi Ouzou, 15000 Tizi Ouzou, 
Algeria.
(4)Department of Natural and Life Sciences, Faculty of Exact Sciences and 
Natural and Life Sciences, Mohamed Khider University of Biskra, 07000 Biskra, 
Algeria.
(5)Department of Infection Biology, Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 7HT, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: Application of next-generation sequencing (NGS) to genomic DNA 
extracted from sewage offers a unique and cost-effective opportunity to study 
the genetic diversity of intestinal parasites. In this study, we used 
amplicon-based NGS to reveal and differentiate several common luminal intestinal 
parasitic protists, specifically Entamoeba, Endolimax, Iodamoeba, and 
Blastocystis, in sewage samples from Swedish treatment plants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Influent sewage samples were subject to gradient 
centrifugation, DNA extraction and PCR-based amplification using three primer 
pairs designed for amplification of eukaryotic nuclear 18S ribosomal DNA. PCR 
products were sequenced using ILLUMINA® technology, and resulting sequences were 
annotated to species and subtype level using the in-house BION software, 
sequence clustering, and phylogenetic analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 26 samples from eight treatment plants in central/southern 
Sweden were analysed. Blastocystis sp. and Entamoeba moshkovskii were detected 
in all samples, and most samples (n = 20) were positive for Entamoeba coli. 
Moreover, we detected Entamoeba histolytica, Entamoeba dispar, Entamoeba 
hartmanni, Endolimax nana, and Iodamoeba bütschlii in 1, 11, 4, 10, and 7 
samples, respectively. The level of genetic divergence observed within E. nana 
and E. moshkovskii was 20.2% and 7.7%, respectively, across the ~400-bp region 
studied, and two clades of E. moshkovskii were found. As expected, Blastocystis 
sp. subtypes 1-4 were present in almost all samples; however, ST8 was present in 
10 samples and was the only subtype not commonly found in humans that was 
present in multiple samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Entamoeba and Blastocystis were identified as universal members of 
the "sewage microbiome". Blastocystis sp. ST8, which has been rarely reported in 
humans, was a very common finding, indicating that a hitherto unidentified but 
common host of ST8 contributed to the sewage influent. The study also provided 
substantial new insight into the intra-generic diversity of Entamoeba and 
Endolimax.

© 2019 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parepi.2019.e00131
PMCID: PMC6940715
PMID: 31909230


28. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Nov 27;115(48):12229-12234. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1812826115. Epub 2018 Nov 12.

A long-term survey unveils strong seasonal patterns in the airborne microbiome 
coupled to general and regional atmospheric circulations.

Cáliz J(1), Triadó-Margarit X(1), Camarero L(1), Casamayor EO(2).

Author information:
(1)Integrative Freshwater Ecology Group and LTER-Aigüestortes, Centre of 
Advanced Studies of Blanes, Spanish Council for Research (CSIC), E-17300 Blanes, 
Spain.
(2)Integrative Freshwater Ecology Group and LTER-Aigüestortes, Centre of 
Advanced Studies of Blanes, Spanish Council for Research (CSIC), E-17300 Blanes, 
Spain casamayor@ceab.csic.es.

Airborne microbes (bacteria, archaea, protists, and fungi) were surveyed over a 
7-y period via high-throughput massive sequencing of 16S and 18S rRNA genes in 
rain and snow samples collected fortnightly at a high-elevation mountain 
Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) Network site (LTER-Aigüestortes, Central 
Pyrenees, Spain). This survey constitutes the most comprehensive mountain-top 
aerobiology study reported to date. The air mass origins were tracked through 
modeled back-trajectories and analysis of rain water chemical composition. 
Consistent microbial seasonal patterns were observed with highly divergent 
summer and winter communities recurrent in time. Indicative microbial taxa were 
unveiled as a forensic signature, and ubiquitous taxa were observed as common 
atmosphere inhabitants, highlighting aerosols as a potentially successful 
mechanism for global microbial dispersal. Source-tracking analyses identified 
freshwater, cropland, and urban biomes as the most important sources for 
airborne bacteria in summer, while marine and forest biomes prevailed in winter, 
in agreement with air mass retrotrajectories and the prevailing general and 
regional atmospheric circulation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1812826115
PMCID: PMC6275539
PMID: 30420511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


29. Microbiome. 2018 Sep 17;6(1):164. doi: 10.1186/s40168-018-0540-2.

Restriction enzyme digestion of host DNA enhances universal detection of 
parasitic pathogens in blood via targeted amplicon deep sequencing.

Flaherty BR(1)(2), Talundzic E(3), Barratt J(1)(2), Kines KJ(1), Olsen C(4), 
Lane M(1)(5), Sheth M(6), Bradbury RS(7).

Author information:
(1)Parasitic Diseases Branch, Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA, 
30329, USA.
(2)Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education, 100 ORAU Way, Oak Ridge, TN, 
37830, USA.
(3)Malaria Branch, Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA, 30329, USA.
(4)Pacific Biosciences, 1380 Willow Road, Menlo Park, CA, 94025, USA.
(5)IHRC, Inc., 2 Ravinia Drive, Atlanta, GA, 30346, USA.
(6)Biotechnology Core Facility, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 
Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA, 30329, USA.
(7)Parasitic Diseases Branch, Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, GA, 
30329, USA. isl5@cdc.gov.

BACKGROUND: Targeted amplicon deep sequencing (TADS) of the 16S rRNA gene is 
commonly used to explore and characterize bacterial microbiomes. Meanwhile, 
attempts to apply TADS to the detection and characterization of entire parasitic 
communities have been hampered since conserved regions of many conserved 
parasite genes, such as the 18S rRNA gene, are also conserved in their 
eukaryotic hosts. As a result, targeted amplification of 18S rRNA from clinical 
samples using universal primers frequently results in competitive priming and 
preferential amplification of host DNA. Here, we describe a novel method that 
employs a single pair of universal primers to capture all blood-borne parasites 
while reducing host 18S rRNA template and enhancing the amplification of 
parasite 18S rRNA for TADS. This was achieved using restriction enzymes to 
digest the 18S rRNA gene at cut sites present only in the host sequence prior to 
PCR amplification.
RESULTS: This method was validated against 16 species of blood-borne helminths 
and protozoa. Enzyme digestion prior to PCR enrichment and Illumina amplicon 
deep sequencing led to a substantial reduction in human reads and a 
corresponding 5- to 10-fold increase in parasite reads relative to undigested 
samples. This method allowed for discrimination of all common parasitic agents 
found in human blood, even in cases of multi-parasite infection, and markedly 
reduced the limit of detection in digested versus undigested samples.
CONCLUSIONS: The results herein provide a novel methodology for the reduction of 
host DNA prior to TADS and establish the validity of a next-generation 
sequencing-based platform for universal parasite detection.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-018-0540-2
PMCID: PMC6142370
PMID: 30223888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Ethics approval for the use of anonymized, de-identified, non-reidentifiable 
blood samples as non-engaged research was granted by Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria Human Subjects Review, 
approval number 2016-314. The findings and conclusions in this report are those 
of the authors and do not necessarily represent the official position of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/the Agency for Toxic Substances and 
Disease Registry. COMPETING INTERESTS: E.T., R.S.B., C.O., and B.R.F. have 
submitted a patent (E-113-2017/0; I-024-16) for the use of restriction enzymes 
to reduce host DNA in TADS analyses. The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


30. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 30;14(8):e0221815. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221815. 
eCollection 2019.

Effects of antibacterial peptides on rumen fermentation function and rumen 
microorganisms in goats.

Ren Z(1), Yao R(1), Liu Q(1), Deng Y(1), Shen L(1), Deng H(1), Zuo Z(1), Wang 
Y(1), Deng J(1), Cui H(1), Hu Y(1), Ma X(1), Fang J(1).

Author information:
(1)The Key Laboratory of Animal Disease and Human Health of Sichuan Province, 
Key Laboratory of Environmental Hazard and Animal Disease of Sichuan Province, 
College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuang Agricultural University, Chengdu 
Sichuang, China.

Although many studies have confirmed that antimicrobial peptides (AMPs: PBD-mI 
and LUC-n) can be used as feed additives, there are few reports of their use in 
ruminants. The present study aimed to investigate the impact of AMPs on 
ameliorating rumen fermentation function and rumen microorganisms in goats. 
Eighteen 4-month-old Chuanzhong black goats were used in a 60-day experiment (6 
goats per group). Group I was used as the control and was fed a basal diet, the 
group II were fed the basal diet supplemented with 2 g of AMPs [per goat/day] 
and group III were fed the basal diet supplemented 3 g of AMPs [per goat/day], 
respectively. Rumen fluid samples were collected at 0, 20 and 60 days. Bacterial 
16S rRNA genes and ciliate protozoal 18S rRNA genes were amplified by PCR from 
DNA extracted from rumen samples. The amplicons were sequenced by Illumina 
MiSeq. Rumen fermentation parameters and digestive enzyme activities were also 
examined. Our results showed that dietary supplementation with AMPs increased 
the levels of the bacterial genera Fibrobacter, Anaerovibrio and 
Succiniclasticum and also increased the ciliates genus Ophryoscolex, but reduced 
the levels of the bacterial genera Selenomonas, Succinivibrio and Treponema, and 
the ciliate genera Polyplastron, Entodinium, Enoploplastron and Isotricha. 
Supplementation with AMPs increased the activities of xylanase, pectinase and 
lipase in the rumen, and also increased the concentrations of acetic acid, 
propionic acid and total volatile fatty acids. These changes were associated 
with improved growth performance in the goats. The results revealed that the 
goats fed AMPs showed improved rumen microbiota structures, altered ruminal 
fermentation, and improved efficiency regarding the utilization of feed; thereby 
indicating that AMPs can improve growth performance. AMPs are therefore suitable 
as feed additives in juvenile goats.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221815
PMCID: PMC6716671
PMID: 31469857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


31. Microbiome. 2014 Nov 3;2:40. doi: 10.1186/2049-2618-2-40. eCollection 2014.

Characterization and quantification of the fungal microbiome in serial samples 
from individuals with cystic fibrosis.

Willger SD(1), Grim SL(2), Dolben EL(1), Shipunova A(3), Hampton TH(1), Morrison 
HG(3), Filkins LM(1), O'Toole GA(1), Moulton LA(4), Ashare A(4), Sogin ML(3), 
Hogan DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, USA.
(2)Josephine Bay Paul Center for Comparative Molecular Biology and Evolution, 
Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA, USA ; Earth and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Josephine Bay Paul Center for Comparative Molecular Biology and Evolution, 
Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA, USA.
(4)Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Section of Pulmonary and Critical Care 
Medicine, Lebanon, NH, USA.

BACKGROUND: Human-associated microbial communities include fungi, but we 
understand little about which fungal species are present, their relative and 
absolute abundances, and how antimicrobial therapy impacts fungal communities. 
The disease cystic fibrosis (CF) often involves chronic airway colonization by 
bacteria and fungi, and these infections cause irreversible lung damage. Fungi 
are detected more frequently in CF sputum samples upon initiation of 
antimicrobial therapy, and several studies have implicated the detection of 
fungi in sputum with worse outcomes. Thus, a more complete understanding of 
fungi in CF is required.
RESULTS: We characterized the fungi and bacteria in expectorated sputa from six 
CF subjects. Samples were collected upon admission for systemic antibacterial 
therapy and upon the completion of treatment and analyzed using a 
pyrosequencing-based analysis of fungal internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) and 
bacterial 16S rDNA sequences. A mixture of Candida species and Malassezia 
dominated the mycobiome in all samples (74%-99% of fungal reads). There was not 
a striking trend correlating fungal and bacterial richness, and richness showed 
a decline after antibiotic therapy particularly for the bacteria. The fungal 
communities within a sputum sample resembled other samples from that subject 
despite the aggressive antibacterial therapy. Quantitative PCR analysis of 
fungal 18S rDNA sequences to assess fungal burden showed variation in fungal 
density in sputum before and after antibacterial therapy but no consistent 
directional trend. Analysis of Candida ITS1 sequences amplified from sputum or 
pure culture-derived genomic DNA from individual Candida species found little 
(<0.5%) or no variation in ITS1 sequences within or between strains, thereby 
validating this locus for the purpose of Candida species identification. We also 
report the enhancement of the publically available Visualization and Analysis of 
Microbial Population Structures (VAMPS) tool for the analysis of fungal 
communities in clinical samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Fungi are present in CF respiratory sputum. In CF, the use of 
intravenous antibiotic therapy often does not profoundly impact bacterial 
community structure, and we observed a similar stability in fungal species 
composition. Further studies are required to predict the effects of 
antibacterials on fungal burden in CF and fungal community stability in non-CF 
populations.

DOI: 10.1186/2049-2618-2-40
PMCID: PMC4236224
PMID: 25408892


32. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2019 Sep 6;13(9):e0007444. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0007444. eCollection 2019 Sep.

Meta-taxonomic analysis of prokaryotic and eukaryotic gut flora in stool samples 
from visceral leishmaniasis cases and endemic controls in Bihar State India.

Lappan R(1), Classon C(2), Kumar S(3), Singh OP(3), de Almeida RV(4), 
Chakravarty J(3), Kumari P(3), Kansal S(3), Sundar S(3), Blackwell JM(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Telethon Kids Institute, The University of Western Australia, Nedlands, 
Western Australia, Australia.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology, Karolinska Institutet, 
Solna, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medicine, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu 
University, Varanasi, India.
(4)Departamento de Bioquímica, Centro de Biociências, Universidade Federal do 
Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) caused by Leishmania donovani remains of public 
health concern in rural India. Those at risk of VL are also at risk of other 
neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) including soil transmitted helminths. 
Intestinal helminths are potent regulators of host immune responses sometimes 
mediated through cross-talk with gut microbiota. We evaluate a meta-taxonomic 
approach to determine the composition of prokaryotic and eukaryotic gut 
microflora using amplicon-based sequencing of 16S ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) and 
18S rRNA gene regions. The most abundant bacterial taxa identified in faecal 
samples from Bihar State India were Prevotella (37.1%), Faecalibacterium 
(11.3%), Escherichia-Shigella (9.1%), Alloprevotella (4.5%), Bacteroides (4.1%), 
Ruminococcaceae UCG-002 (1.6%), and Bifidobacterium (1.5%). Eukaryotic taxa 
identified (excluding plant genera) included Blastocystis (57.9%; Order: 
Stramenopiles), Dientamoeba (12.1%; Family: Tritrichomonadea), Pentatrichomonas 
(10.1%; Family: Trichomonodea), Entamoeba (3.5%; Family: Entamoebida), 
Ascaridida (0.8%; Family: Chromodorea; concordant with Ascaris by microscopy), 
Rhabditida (0.8%; Family: Chromodorea; concordant with Strongyloides), and 
Cyclophyllidea (0.2%; Order: Eucestoda; concordant with Hymenolepis). Overall 
alpha (Shannon's, Faith's and Pielou's indices) and beta (Bray-Curtis 
dissimilarity statistic; weighted UniFrac distances) diversity of taxa did not 
differ significantly by age, sex, geographic subdistrict, or VL case (N = 23) 
versus endemic control (EC; N = 23) status. However, taxon-specific associations 
occurred: (i) Ruminococcaceae UCG- 014 and Gastranaerophilales_uncultured 
bacterium were enriched in EC compared to VL cases; (ii) Pentatrichomonas was 
more abundant in VL cases than in EC, whereas the reverse occurred for 
Entamoeba. Across the cohort, high Escherichia-Shigella was associated with 
reduced bacterial diversity, while high Blastocystis was associated with high 
bacterial diversity and low Escherichia-Shigella. Individuals with high 
Blastocystis had low Bacteroidaceae and high Clostridiales vadin BB60 whereas 
the reverse held true for low Blastocystis. This scoping study provides useful 
baseline data upon which to develop a broader analysis of pathogenic enteric 
microflora and their influence on gut microbial health and NTDs generally.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0007444
PMCID: PMC6750594
PMID: 31490933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


33. Clin Transl Gastroenterol. 2018 Jun 19;9(6):161. doi: 10.1038/s41424-018-0027-2.

Characteristics of the bacterial microbiome in association with common 
intestinal parasites in irritable bowel syndrome.

Krogsgaard LR(1)(2), Andersen LO'(3), Johannesen TB(3), Engsbro AL(4), Stensvold 
CR(3), Nielsen HV(3), Bytzer P(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Zealand University Hospital, Lykkebækvej 1, 
DK-4600, Køge, Denmark. Lrk@dadlnet.dk.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, København, 
Denmark. Lrk@dadlnet.dk.
(3)Department of Bacteria, Parasites & Fungi, Statens Serum Institut, 
Artillerivej 5, DK-2300, Copenhagen S, Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Kettegård Alle 30, DK-2560, Hvidovre, Denmark.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, Zealand University Hospital, Lykkebækvej 1, 
DK-4600, Køge, Denmark.
(6)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, København, 
Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: A low prevalence of intestinal parasites has been identified in 
individuals with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), but potential associations with 
alterations in the bacterial microbiome remain largely unexplored. We aimed to 
investigate the relationship between parasites and bacteria in individuals with 
IBS in order to identify potential trans-kingdom microbial characteristics.
DESIGN: Stool samples were collected from the Danish background population 
classified into IBS (n = 119), unspecific gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms 
(n = 114), and asymptomatic controls (n = 186) based on the Rome III criteria 
for IBS. Bacterial (16S) and eukaryotic (18S) ribosomal DNA was sequenced, and 
18S data were merged with data from conventional parasite laboratory tests. The 
bacterial microbiome was analyzed according to symptom group and parasite 
colonization status.
RESULTS: Bacterial richness and diversity were similar for IBS and controls but 
higher in those with unspecific GI symptoms. A higher abundance of Bacteroides 
and a lower abundance of Faecalibacterium were detected in individuals with IBS 
and unspecific GI symptoms compared with controls. Principal component analyses 
indicated differences in bacterial composition related to parasite colonization 
rather than symptom group. Parasites were detected at the lowest frequency in 
the IBS group (39%) and in samples dominated by Bacteroides. Higher bacterial 
richness and diversity were found in parasite-positive samples from controls and 
those with unspecific GI symptoms but not in individuals with IBS.
CONCLUSION: Parasite colonization, rather than bacterial composition, differed 
between individuals with IBS and healthy controls. Parasite colonization was 
associated to a rich and diverse bacterial microbiome; however, this association 
was altered in IBS.

DOI: 10.1038/s41424-018-0027-2
PMCID: PMC6006308
PMID: 29915224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Guarantor of the article: Laura Rindom 
Krogsgaard. Specific authors contributions: L.R.K.: Study concept and design, 
acquisition of data, analysis and interpretation of data, drafted the 
manuscript, statistical analyses, and obtained funding. L.O'B.A.: Performed 16s 
and 18s analysis, expertise in use of BION software, analysis and interpretation 
of data, critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. 
T.B.J.: Analysis and interpretation of data, statistical analyses, 
bio-informatics, critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual 
content. A.L.E.: Study concept and design, interpretation of data, critical 
revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content. C.R.S.: Study 
concept and design, interpretation of data, critical revision of the manuscript 
for important intellectual content. H.V.N.: Study concept and design, 
administrative support. P.B.: Study concept and design, interpretation of data, 
critical revision of the manuscript for important intellectual content, 
administrative support, and study supervision. Financial support: The study was 
funded by Region Zealand’s Health Sciences Research Foundation, University of 
Copenhagen, the Aksel Meyer Nielsen and Vetsera Meyer Nielsen trust, the Medical 
Society of Copenhagen, and the Trust of 1870. Potential competing interests: The 
authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.


34. Malar J. 2018 Dec 14;17(1):470. doi: 10.1186/s12936-018-2614-9.

Challenging diagnosis of congenital malaria in non-endemic areas.

Romani L(1), Pane S(2), Severini C(3), Menegon M(3), Foglietta G(2), Bernardi 
S(1), Tchidjou HK(1), Onetti Muda A(4), Palma P(5), Putignani L(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Research Unit in Congenital 
and Perinatal Infections, University-Hospital, Pediatric Department (DPUO), 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Piazza Sant'Onofrio 4, 00165, Rome, Italy.
(2)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Piazza Sant'Onofrio 
4, 00165, Rome, Italy.
(3)Istituto Superiore di Sanità (ISS), Viale Regina Elena 299, 00161, Rome, 
Italy.
(4)Department of Laboratories, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Piazza 
Sant'Onofrio 4, 00165, Rome, Italy.
(5)Division of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Research Unit in Congenital 
and Perinatal Infections, University-Hospital, Pediatric Department (DPUO), 
Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Piazza Sant'Onofrio 4, 00165, Rome, Italy. 
paolo.palma@opbg.net.
(6)Unit of Parasitology, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Piazza Sant'Onofrio 
4, 00165, Rome, Italy. lorenza.putignani@opbg.net.
(7)Unit of Human Microbiome, Bambino Gesù Children's Hospital, Viale San Paolo 
15, 00146, Rome, Italy. lorenza.putignani@opbg.net.

BACKGROUND: Congenital malaria is usually defined as the detection of asexual 
forms of Plasmodium spp. in a blood sample of a neonate during perinatal age if 
there is no possibility of postpartum infection by a mosquito bite. The 
incidence of congenital malaria is highly variable and seems related to several 
factors, such as different diagnostic methods for Plasmodium spp. detection, and 
area in which the epidemiologic analyses are performed. In non-endemic 
countries, cases of congenital malaria are rare. Hereby, a case of a congenital 
malaria in an HIV exposed child is reported.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 2-month-old male child was admitted to Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital due to anaemia and exposure to HIV. He was born prematurely 
in Italy by cesarean section at 34 weeks' gestation after a bicorial, biamniotic 
pregnancy by a migrant woman from Nigeria. He was the first of non-identical 
twins. Combined with anaemia, spleen and liver enlargement was noted, malaria 
was hypothesized. Malaria laboratory panel was performed on the newborn, mother 
and other twin blood samples, as follows: (i) malaria rapid diagnostic test 
(RDT); (ii) Giemsa-stained thick and thin blood smears for Plasmodium spp. 
identification and parasitaemia titration; (iii) molecular screening and typing 
of Plasmodium spp. by multiplex qualitative PCR assay based on 18S rRNA gene. 
Genotyping of Plasmodium falciparum isolates from mother and child was performed 
by neutral microsatellite and highly polymorphic marker amplification.
CONCLUSIONS: The maternal RDT sample was negative, while the infant RDT was 
positive; in both cases microscopy of blood smears and PCR showed infection with 
P. falciparum. Two of the genotypic molecular markers displayed different 
allelic variants between the two samples. This difference could imply infection 
multiplicity of the mother during the pregnancy, possibly harbouring more than 
one isolate, only one of them being transmitted to the newborn while the other 
persisting in the mother's blood. Because of the increasing number of pregnant 
women coming from endemic areas for malaria, an accurate anamnesis of infant's 
mother, and the inclusion of Plasmodium spp. research into TORCH screenings for 
mother-infant pair at birth, aiming at reducing morbidity and mortality 
associated to the disease might be suitable.

DOI: 10.1186/s12936-018-2614-9
PMCID: PMC6295090
PMID: 30551740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2018 Aug 17;84(17):e01037-18. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01037-18. 
Print 2018 Sep 1.

Overlapping Community Compositions of Gut and Fecal Microbiomes in Lab-Reared 
and Field-Collected German Cockroaches.

Kakumanu ML(1), Maritz JM(2), Carlton JM(2), Schal C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology and Center for Human Health and 
the Environment, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA 
mlkakuma@ncsu.edu.
(2)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, Department of Biology, New York 
University, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology and Center for Human Health and 
the Environment, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina, USA.

German cockroaches, Blattella germanica (Blattodea: Ectobiidae), are human 
commensals that move freely between food and waste, disseminating bacteria, 
including potential pathogens, through their feces. However, the relationship 
between the microbial communities of the cockroach gut and feces is poorly 
understood. We analyzed the V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene and the V9 region of 
the 18S rRNA gene by next-generation sequencing (NGS) to compare the bacterial 
and protist diversities in guts versus feces and males versus females, as well 
as assess variation across cockroach populations. Cockroaches harbored a diverse 
array of bacteria, and 80 to 90% of the operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were 
shared between the feces and gut. Lab-reared and field-collected cockroaches had 
distinct microbiota, and whereas lab-reared cockroaches had relatively conserved 
communities, considerable variation was observed in the microbial community 
composition of cockroaches collected in different apartments. Nonetheless, 
cockroaches from all locations shared some core bacterial taxa. The eukaryotic 
community in the feces of field-collected cockroaches was found to be more 
diverse than that in lab-reared cockroaches. These results demonstrate that 
cockroaches disseminate their gut microbiome in their feces, and they underscore 
the important contribution of the cockroach fecal microbiome to the microbial 
diversity of cockroach-infested homes.IMPORTANCE The German cockroach infests 
diverse human-built structures, including homes and hospitals. It produces 
potent allergens that trigger asthma and disseminates opportunistic pathogens in 
its feces. A comprehensive understanding of gut and fecal microbial communities 
of cockroaches is essential not only to understand their contribution to the 
biology of the cockroach, but also for exploring their clinical relevance. In 
this study, we compare the diversity of bacteria and eukaryotes in the cockroach 
gut and feces and assess the variation in the gut microbiota across cockroach 
populations.

Copyright © 2018 Kakumanu et al.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01037-18
PMCID: PMC6102980
PMID: 29959246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. ISME J. 2018 Dec;12(12):2988-3000. doi: 10.1038/s41396-018-0236-4. Epub 2018 Aug 
7.

Microbial connectivity and sorting in a High Arctic watershed.

Comte J(1)(2)(3)(4), Culley AI(5)(6)(7), Lovejoy C(6)(8)(9), Vincent WF(5)(8).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'études nordiques (CEN), Université Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, 
Canada. jerome.comte@ete.inrs.ca.
(2)Institut de Biologie Intégrative et des Systèmes (IBIS), Université Laval, 
Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada. jerome.comte@ete.inrs.ca.
(3)Takuvik Joint International Laboratory & Département de biologie, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada. jerome.comte@ete.inrs.ca.
(4)Institut national de la recherche scientifique - Centre Eau Terre 
Environnement, Québec, QC, G1K 9A9, Canada. jerome.comte@ete.inrs.ca.
(5)Centre d'études nordiques (CEN), Université Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, 
Canada.
(6)Institut de Biologie Intégrative et des Systèmes (IBIS), Université Laval, 
Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada.
(7)Département de biochimie, de microbiologie et de bio-informatique, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada.
(8)Takuvik Joint International Laboratory & Département de biologie, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada.
(9)Québec-Océan, Université Laval, Québec, QC, G1V 0A6, Canada.

Aquatic ecosystems in the High Arctic are facing unprecedented changes as a 
result of global warming effects on the cryosphere. Snow pack is a central 
feature of northern landscapes, but the snow microbiome and its microbial 
connectivity to adjacent and downstream habitats have been little explored. To 
evaluate these aspects, we sampled along a hydrologic continuum at Ward Hunt 
Lake (latitude 83°N) in the Canadian High Arctic, from snow banks, water tracks 
in the permafrost catchment, the upper and lower strata of the lake, and the 
lake outlet and its coastal marine mixing zone. The microbial communities were 
analyzed by high-throughput sequencing of 16 and 18S rRNA to determine the 
composition of potentially active Bacteria, Archaea and microbial Eukarya. Each 
habitat had distinct microbial assemblages, with highest species richness in the 
subsurface water tracks that connected the melting snow to the lake. However, up 
to 30% of phylotypes were shared along the hydrologic continuum, showing that 
many taxa originating from the snow can remain in the active fraction of 
downstream microbiomes. The results imply that changes in snowfall associated 
with climate warming will affect microbial community structure throughout all 
spatially connected habitats within snow-fed polar ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-018-0236-4
PMCID: PMC6246550
PMID: 30087410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


37. Microbiome. 2018 Apr 26;6(1):79. doi: 10.1186/s40168-018-0459-7.

A microorganisms' journey between plant generations.

Vannier N(1), Mony C(2), Bittebiere AK(3), Michon-Coudouel S(4), Biget M(4), 
Vandenkoornhuyse P(2).

Author information:
(1)Université de Rennes 1, CNRS, UMR 6553 EcoBio, campus Beaulieu, Avenue du 
Général Leclerc, 35042, Rennes Cedex, France. nathan.vannier35@gmail.com.
(2)Université de Rennes 1, CNRS, UMR 6553 EcoBio, campus Beaulieu, Avenue du 
Général Leclerc, 35042, Rennes Cedex, France.
(3)Université de Lyon 1, CNRS, UMR 5023 LEHNA, 43 Boulevard du 11 Novembre 1918, 
69622, Villeurbanne Cedex, France.
(4)Université de Rennes 1, CNRS, UMS3343 OSUR, campus Beaulieu, Avenue du 
Général Leclerc, 35042, Rennes Cedex, France.

BACKGROUND: Plants are colonized by a great diversity of microorganisms which 
form a microbiota and perform additional functions for their host. This 
microbiota can thus be considered a toolbox enabling plants to buffer local 
environmental changes, with a positive influence on plant fitness. In this 
context, the transmission of the microbiota to the progeny represent a way to 
ensure the presence of beneficial symbionts within the habitat. Examples of such 
transmission have been mainly described for seed transmission and concern a few 
pathogenic microorganisms. We investigated the transmission of symbiotic 
partners to plant progeny within clonal plant network.
METHODS: We used the clonal plant Glechoma hederacea as plant model and forced 
newly emitted clonal progeny to root in separated pots while controlling the 
presence of microorganisms. We used an amplicon sequencing approach of 16S and 
18S rRNA targeting bacteria/archaea and fungi respectively to describe the root 
microbiota of mother and clonal-plant offspring.
RESULTS: We demonstrated the vertical transmission of a significant proportion 
of the mother plants' symbiotic bacteria and fungi to the daughters. 
Interestingly, archaea were not transmitted to the daughter plants. Transmitted 
communities had lower richness, suggesting a filtration during transmission. We 
found that the transmitted pool of microorganisms was similar among daughters, 
constituting the heritability of a specific cohort of microorganisms, opening a 
new understanding of the plant holobiont. We also found significant effects of 
distance to the mother plant and of growth time on the richness of the 
microbiota transmitted.
CONCLUSIONS: In this clonal plant, microorganisms are transmitted between 
individuals through connections, thereby ensuring the availability of microbe 
partners for the newborn plants as well as the dispersion between hosts for the 
microorganisms. This previously undescribed ecological process allows the 
dispersal of microorganisms in space and across plant generations. As the vast 
majority of plants are clonal, this process might be therefore a strong driver 
of ecosystem functioning and assembly of plant and microorganism communities in 
a wide range of ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-018-0459-7
PMCID: PMC5918900
PMID: 29695286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


38. Sci Total Environ. 2019 Jan 1;646:480-490. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.07.323. 
Epub 2018 Jul 24.

Long-term farming systems modulate multi-trophic responses.

Lupatini M(1), Korthals GW(2), Roesch LFW(3), Kuramae EE(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology 
(NIOO-KNAW), Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Terrestrial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology 
(NIOO-KNAW), Wageningen, the Netherlands.
(3)Centro Interdisciplinar de Pesquisas em Biotecnologia, Universidade Federal 
do Pampa (UNIPAMPA), Avenida Antônio Trilha 1847, 97300-000 São Gabriel, Brazil.
(4)Department of Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology 
(NIOO-KNAW), Wageningen, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
E.Kuramae@nioo.knaw.nl.

Soil microbiome and multi-trophic relationships are essential for the stability 
and functioning of agroecosystems. However, little is known about how farming 
systems and alternative methods for controlling plant pathogens modulate 
microbial communities, soil mesofauna and plant productivity. In this study, we 
assessed the composition of eukaryotic microbial groups using a high-throughput 
sequencing approach (18S rRNA gene marker), the populations of parasitic and 
free-living nematodes, plant productivity and their inter-relationships in 
long-term conventional and organic farming systems. The diversity of the fungal 
community increased in the organic farming system compared to the conventional 
farming system, whereas the diversity of the protist community was similar 
between the two farming systems. Compared to conventional farming, organic 
farming increased the population of free-living nematodes and suppressed plant 
parasitic nematodes belonging to Meloidogynidae and Pratylenchidae. Fungal 
diversity and community structure appeared to be related to nematode suppression 
in the system receiving organic fertilizer, which was characterized by component 
microbial groups known to be involved in the suppression of soil pathogens. 
Unraveling the microbiome and multi-trophic interactions in different farming 
systems may permit the management of the soil environment toward more 
sustainable control of plant pathogens.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2018.07.323
PMID: 30056235


39. Front Microbiol. 2018 Dec 4;9:2881. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02881. eCollection 
2018.

Multiple Strategies for Light-Harvesting, Photoprotection, and Carbon Flow in 
High Latitude Microbial Mats.

Vigneron A(1)(2)(3), Cruaud P(3)(4), Mohit V(1)(2)(3), Martineau MJ(1)(2), 
Culley AI(1)(3)(4), Lovejoy C(1)(2)(3), Vincent WF(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Études Nordiques, Takuvik Joint International Laboratory, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(2)Département de Biologie, Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(3)Institut de Biologie Intégrative et des Systèmes, Université Laval, Québec, 
QC, Canada.
(4)Département de Biochimie, de Microbiologie et de Bio-informatique, Université 
Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.

Microbial mats are ubiquitous in polar freshwater ecosystems and sustain high 
concentrations of biomass despite the extreme seasonal variations in light and 
temperature. Here we aimed to resolve genomic adaptations for light-harvesting, 
bright-light protection, and carbon flow in mats that undergo seasonal 
freeze-up. To bracket a range of communities in shallow water habitats, we 
sampled cyanobacterial mats in the thawed littoral zone of two lakes situated at 
the northern and southern limits of the Canadian Arctic permafrost zone. We 
applied a multiphasic approach using pigment profiles from high performance 
liquid chromatography, Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the 16S and 18S rRNA genes, 
and metagenomic analysis. The mats shared a taxonomic and functional core 
microbiome, dominated by oxygenic cyanobacteria with light-harvesting and 
photoprotective pigments, bacteria with bacteriochlorophyll, and bacteria with 
light-driven Type I rhodopsins. Organisms able to use light for energy related 
processes represented up to 85% of the total microbial community, with 15-30% 
attributable to cyanobacteria and 55-70% attributable to other bacteria. The 
proportion of genes involved in anaplerotic CO2 fixation was greater than for 
genes associated with oxygenic photosynthesis. Diverse heterotrophic bacteria, 
eukaryotes (including metazoans and fungi) and viruses co-occurred in both 
communities. The results indicate a broad range of strategies for capturing 
sunlight and CO2, and for the subsequent flow of energy and carbon in these 
complex, light-driven microbial ecosystems.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02881
PMCID: PMC6288179
PMID: 30564204


40. Microb Pathog. 2019 Feb;127:97-105. doi: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.11.051. Epub 
2018 Nov 30.

Microbial biomarkers of common tongue coatings in patients with gastric cancer.

Xu J(1), Xiang C(1), Zhang C(1), Xu B(1), Wu J(1), Wang R(2), Yang Y(3), Shi 
L(1), Zhang J(4), Zhan Z(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Life Sciences, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing, 210023, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Jiangsu Province Hospital of Traditional Chinese 
Medicine, Nanjing, 210029, China.
(3)School of Basic Medicine, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 
210023, China.
(4)School of Medicine and Life Sciences, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing, 210023, China. Electronic address: zhangjunfeng5_5@163.com.
(5)School of Medicine and Life Sciences, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, 
Nanjing, 210023, China. Electronic address: zhanzhan5607@163.com.

PURPOSE: The study aims to explore the characteristic microorganisms of the 
common tongue coatings in patients with gastric cancer (GC).
METHODS: A total of 115 GC patients were assigned to four groups: White-thin 
coating (W-thin) group, White-thick coating (W-thick) group, Yellow-thin coating 
(Y-thin) group and Yellow-thick coating (Y-thick) group. Thirty-five healthy 
volunteers with White-thin coating were recruit as controls. High-throughput 
sequencing was used to describe the microbial community of the tongue coatings 
based on 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes. Multi-factors statistical analysis was 
carried out to present the microbial biomarkers of the tongue coating in GC 
patients.
RESULTS: At bacterial phylum level, Saccharibacteria had higher relative 
abundance in W-thick group than W-thin group, Proteobacteria was more abundant 
in W-thin group than Y-thick group and less abundant in Y-thick group than 
Y-thin group. At fungal genus level, Guehomyces and Aspergillus presented to be 
significantly different among the common tongue coatings. Forteen significantly 
increased taxa were sorted out as the microbial biomarkers of common tongue 
coatings by LEfSe and ROC analysis. At species level, bacterial Capnocytophaga 
leadbetteri and fungal Ampelomyces_sp_IRAN_1 may be the potential biomarkers of 
W-thin coating, four bacterial species (Megasphaera micronuciformis, Selenomonas 
sputigena ATCC 35185, Acinetobacter ursingii, Prevotella maculosa) may be the 
potential biomarkers of W-thick coating. In general, the white coatings held 
more complex commensal relationship than the yellow coatings.
CONCLUSION: The common tongue coating owned characteristic microorganisms and 
special commensal relationship in the GC patients.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micpath.2018.11.051
PMID: 30508628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Sci Rep. 2016 Aug 22;6:31508. doi: 10.1038/srep31508.

Multi-marker metabarcoding of coral skeletons reveals a rich microbiome and 
diverse evolutionary origins of endolithic algae.

Marcelino VR(1), Verbruggen H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biosciences, University of Melbourne, VIC 3010, Australia.

Bacteria, fungi and green algae are common inhabitants of coral skeletons. Their 
diversity is poorly characterized because they are difficult to identify with 
microscopy or environmental sequencing, as common metabarcoding markers have low 
phylogenetic resolution and miss a large portion of the biodiversity. We used a 
cost-effective protocol and a combination of markers (tufA, 16S rDNA, 18S rDNA 
and 23S rDNA) to characterize the microbiome of 132 coral skeleton samples. We 
identified a wide range of prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, many never 
reported in corals before. We additionally investigated the phylogenetic 
diversity of the green algae-the most abundant eukaryotic member of this 
community, for which previous literature recognizes only a handful of endolithic 
species. We found more than 120 taxonomic units (near species level), including 
six family-level lineages mostly new to science. The results suggest that the 
existence of lineages with an endolithic lifestyle predates the existence of 
modern scleractinian corals by ca. 250my, and that this particular niche was 
independently invaded by over 20 lineages in green algae evolution. These 
results highlight the potential of the multi-marker approach to assist in 
species discovery and, when combined with a phylogenetic framework, clarify the 
evolutionary origins of host-microbiota associations.

DOI: 10.1038/srep31508
PMCID: PMC4992875
PMID: 27545322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Microbiologyopen. 2018 Dec;7(6):e00716. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.716. Epub 2018 Aug 31.

Microbial effects of livestock manure fertilization on freshwater aquaculture 
ponds rearing tilapia (Oreochromis shiranus) and North African catfish (Clarias 
gariepinus).

Minich JJ(1), Zhu Q(2), Xu ZZ(2), Amir A(2), Ngochera M(3), Simwaka M(4), Allen 
EE(1)(5), Zidana H(4), Knight R(2)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Marine Biology Research Division, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, 
California.
(3)Department of Fisheries, Fisheries Research Unit, Monkey Bay, Malawi.
(4)National Aquaculture Center, Domasi, Malawi.
(5)Center for Microbiome Innovation, Jacobs School of Engineering, University of 
California San Diego, La Jolla, California.
(6)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California San 
Diego, La Jolla, California.

The majority of seafood is farmed, with most finfish coming from freshwater 
ponds. Ponds are often fertilized to promote microbial productivity as a natural 
feed source to fish. To understand if pond fertilization with livestock manure 
induces a probiotic or prebiotic effect, we communally reared tilapia 
(Oreochromis shiranus), and North African catfish (Clarias gariepinus), for 
4 weeks under seven manure treatments including layer chicken, broiler chicken, 
guinea fowl, quail, pig, cow, vs. commercial feed to evaluate microbial 
community dynamics of the manure, pond water, and fish feces using 16S and 18S 
rRNA marker genes along with metagenome sequencing. Catfish growth, but not 
tilapia, was positively associated with plankton abundance (p = 0.0006, R2 
 = 0.4887) and greatest in ponds fertilized with quail manure (ANOVA, p < 0.05). 
Manure was unique and influenced the 16S microbiome in pond water, tilapia gut, 
and catfish gut and 18S community in pond water and catfish guts (PERMANOVA, 
p = 0.001). On average, 18.5%, 18.6%, and 45.3% of manure bacteria sOTUs, 
(sub-operational taxonomic units), were present in the water column, catfish 
feces, and tilapia feces which comprised 3.7%, 12.8%, and 10.9% of the total 
microbial richness of the communities, respectively. Antibiotic resistance genes 
were highest in the manure and water samples followed by tilapia feces and 
lowest in catfish feces (p < 0.0001). In this study, we demonstrate how the 
bacterial and eukaryotic microbial composition of fish ponds are influenced by 
specific livestock manure inputs and that the gut microbiome of tilapia is more 
sensitive and responsive than catfish to these changes. We conclude that animal 
manure used as fertilizer induces a primarily prebiotic effect on the pond 
ecosystem rather than a direct probiotic effect on fish.

© 2018 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.716
PMCID: PMC6291788
PMID: 30168288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Sci Rep. 2018 Nov 2;8(1):16290. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-34541-1.

Combining morpho-taxonomy and metabarcoding enhances the detection of 
non-indigenous marine pests in biofouling communities.

Ammon UV(1)(2), Wood SA(3), Laroche O(3)(4), Zaiko A(3)(4), Tait L(5), Lavery 
S(4)(6), Inglis GJ(5), Pochon X(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Environmental Technologies, Coastal and Freshwater Group, Cawthron Institute, 
Private Bag 2, Nelson, 7042, New Zealand. ulla.ammon@cawthron.org.nz.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, 
Auckland, 1142, New Zealand. ulla.ammon@cawthron.org.nz.
(3)Environmental Technologies, Coastal and Freshwater Group, Cawthron Institute, 
Private Bag 2, Nelson, 7042, New Zealand.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland, Private Bag 92019, 
Auckland, 1142, New Zealand.
(5)National Institute of Water & Atmospheric Research Ltd, PO Box 8602, 
Riccarton, Christchurch, 8440, New Zealand.
(6)Institute of Marine Science, University of Auckland, Private Bag 349, 
Warkworth, 0941, New Zealand.

Marine infrastructure can favor the spread of non-indigenous marine biofouling 
species by providing a suitable habitat for them to proliferate. Cryptic 
organisms or those in early life stages can be difficult to distinguish by 
conventional morphological taxonomy. Molecular tools, such as metabarcoding, may 
improve their detection. In this study, the ability of morpho-taxonomy and 
metabarcoding (18S rRNA and COI) using three reference databases (PR2, BOLD and 
NCBI) to characterize biodiversity and detect non-indigenous species (NIS) in 
biofouling was compared on 60 passive samplers deployed over summer and winter 
in a New Zealand marina. Highest resolution of metazoan taxa was identified 
using 18S rRNA assigned to PR2. There were higher assignment rates to NCBI 
reference sequences, but poorer taxonomic identification. Using all methods, 48 
potential NIS were identified. Metabarcoding detected the largest proportion of 
those NIS: 77% via 18S rRNA/PR2 and NCBI and 35% via COI/BOLD and NCBI. 
Morpho-taxonomy detected an additional 14% of all identified NIS comprising 
mainly of bryozoan taxa. The data highlight several on-going challenges, 
including: differential marker resolution, primer biases, incomplete sequence 
reference databases, and variations in bioinformatic pipelines. Combining 
morpho-taxonomy and molecular analysis methods will likely enhance the detection 
of NIS from complex biofouling.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-34541-1
PMCID: PMC6215007
PMID: 30389965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


44. Trop Life Sci Res. 2018 Jul;29(2):131-163. doi: 10.21315/tlsr2018.29.2.10. Epub 
2018 Jul 6.

Microbiota of Palm Oil Mill Wastewater in Malaysia.

Bala JD(1), Lalung J(1), Al-Gheethi AAS(2), Hossain K(1), Ismail N(1).

Author information:
(1)Environmental Technology Division, School of Industrial Technology, 
Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 USM Pulau Pinang, Malaysia.
(2)Micro-pollution Research Centre (MPRC), Department of Water and Environmental 
Engineering, Faculty of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Universiti Tun 
Hussein Onn Malaysia, 86400 Batu Pahat, Johor, Malaysia.

This study was aimed at identifying indigenous microorganisms from palm oil mill 
effluent (POME) and to ascertain the microbial load. Isolation and 
identification of indigenous microorganisms was subjected to standard 
microbiological methods and sequencing of the 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes. 
Sequencing of the 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes for the microbial strains 
signifies that they were known as Micrococcus luteus 101PB, Stenotrophomonas 
maltophilia 102PB, Bacillus cereus 103PB, Providencia vermicola 104PB, 
Klebsiella pneumoniae 105PB, Bacillus subtilis 106PB, Aspergillus fumigatus 
107PF, Aspergillus nomius 108PF, Aspergillus niger 109PF and Meyerozyma 
guilliermondii 110PF. Results revealed that the population of total 
heterotrophic bacteria (THB) ranged from 9.5 × 105 - 7.9 × 106 cfu/mL. The total 
heterotrophic fungi (THF) ranged from 2.1 × 104 - 6.4 × 104 cfu/mL. Total viable 
heterotrophic indigenous microbial population on CMC agar ranged from 8.2 × 105 
- 9.1 × 106 cfu/mL and 1.4 × 103 - 3.4 × 103 cfu/mL for bacteria and fungi 
respectively. The microbial population of oil degrading bacteria (ODB) ranged 
from 6.4 × 105 - 4.8 × 106 cfu/mL and the oil degrading fungi (ODF) ranged from 
2.8 × 103 - 4.7 × 104 cfu/mL. The findings revealed that microorganisms flourish 
well in POME. Therefore, this denotes that isolating native microorganisms from 
POME is imperative for effectual bioremediation, biotreatment and biodegradation 
of industrial wastewaters.

Publisher: Kajian ini bertujuan untuk mengenal pasti mikroorganisma asli 
daripada efluen kilang minyak sawit (POME) dan untuk menentukan beban mikrob. 
Pengasingan dan pengenalpastian mikroorganisma asli tertakluk kepada kaedah 
piawai mikrobiologi dan penjujukan gen 16S rRNA dan 18S rRNA. Penjujukan 
daripada gen16S rRNA dan 18S rRNA untuk strain mikrob menunjukkan bahawa mereka 
dikenali sebagai Micrococcus luteus 101PB, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia 102PB, 
Bacillus cereus 103PB, Providencia vermicola 104PB, Klebsiella pneumonia 105PB, 
Bacillus subtilis 106PB, Aspergillus fumigates 107PF, Aspergillus nomius 108PF, 
Aspergillus niger 109PF dan Meyerozyma guilliermondii 110PF. Keputusan 
menunjukkan bahawa jumlah populasi bakteria heterotropik (THB) berkisar antara 
9.5 × 105 – 7.9 × 106 cfu/mL. Jumlah heterotopic fungi (THF) berkisar antara 2.1 
× 104 – 6.4 × 104 cfu/mL. Jumlah populasi mikrob asli heterotropik pada medium 
agar CMC masing-masing berkisar antara 8.2 × 105 – 9.1 × 106 cfu/mL (bakteria) 
dan 1.4 × 103 – 3.4 × 103 cfu/mL (fungi). Penemuan mendapati bahawa 
mikroorganisma berkembang dengan baik di dalam efluen kilang minyak kelapa sawit 
(POME). Oleh itu, ini menunjukkan bahawa pengasingan mikroorganisma asli dari 
efluen kilang minyak sawit (POME) adalah penting untuk bioremediasi, rawatan bio 
dan biodegradasi sisa industri yang berkesan.

DOI: 10.21315/tlsr2018.29.2.10
PMCID: PMC6072722
PMID: 30112146


45. PLoS One. 2019 Jan 15;14(1):e0210798. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210798. 
eCollection 2019.

Oral Candida administration in a Clostridium difficile mouse model worsens 
disease severity but is attenuated by Bifidobacterium.

Panpetch W(1), Somboonna N(2), Palasuk M(2), Hiengrach P(1), Finkelman M(3), 
Tumwasorn S(1), Leelahavanichkul A(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Associates of Cape Cod, Inc., East Falmouth, MA, USA.
(4)Center of Excellence in Immunology and Immune-mediated Diseases, Department 
of Microbiology, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.

Gut fungi may influence the course of Clostridium difficile infection either 
positively or negatively for the host. Fungi are not prominent in the mouse gut, 
and C. albicans, the major human gastrointestinal commensal yeast, is in low 
abundance or absent in mice. Bifidobacterium is one of the probiotics that may 
attenuate the severity of C. difficile infection. Inflammatory synergy between 
C. albicans and C. difficile, in gut, may provide a state that more closely 
resembles human infection and be more suitable for testing probiotic effects. We 
performed fecal mycobiota analysis and administered C. albicans at 1 day prior 
to C. difficile dosing. Fecal eukaryotic 18S rDNA analysis demonstrated the 
presence of Ascomycota, specifically, Candida spp., after oral antibiotics, 
despite negative fecal fungal culture. C. albicans administration enhanced the 
severity of the C. difficile infection model as determined by mortality rate, 
weight loss, gut leakage (FITC-dextran assay), and serum and intestinal tissue 
cytokines. This occurred without increased fecal C. difficile or bacteremia, in 
comparison with C. difficile gavage alone. Candida lysate with C. difficile 
increased IL-8 production from HT-29 and Caco-2 human intestinal epithelial 
cell-lines. Bifidobacterium attenuated the disease severity of the C. difficile 
plus Candida model. The reduced severity was associated with decreased Candida 
burdens in feces. In conclusion, gut C. albicans worsened C. difficile 
infection, possibly through exacerbation of inflammation. Hence, a mouse model 
of Clostridium difficile infection with C. albicans present in the gut may 
better model the human patient condition. Gut fungal mycobiome investigation in 
patients with C. difficile is warranted and may suggest therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210798
PMCID: PMC6333342
PMID: 30645630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: MF received salary 
from Cape Cod Inc. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on 
sharing data and materials.


46. Front Microbiol. 2017 Dec 19;8:2518. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.02518. eCollection 
2017.

Differential Ecological Specificity of Protist and Bacterial Microbiomes across 
a Set of Termite Species.

Waidele L(1), Korb J(1), Voolstra CR(2), Künzel S(3), Dedeine F(4), Staubach 
F(1).

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary Biology and Animal Ecology, Albert Ludwigs University of 
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Division of Biological and Environmental Science and Engineering, Red Sea 
Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), 
Thuwal, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Plön, Germany.
(4)Institut de Recherche sur la Biologie de l'Insecte, UMR 7261, Centre National 
de la Recherche Scientifique - Université de Tours, Tours, France.

The gut microbiome of lower termites comprises protists and bacteria that help 
these insects to digest cellulose and to thrive on wood. The composition of the 
termite gut microbiome correlates with phylogenetic distance of the animal host 
and host ecology (diet) in termites collected from their natural environment. 
However, carryover of transient microbes from host collection sites are an 
experimental concern and might contribute to the ecological imprints on the 
termite gut microbiome. Here, we set out to test whether an ecological imprint 
on the termite gut microbiome remains, when focusing on the persistent 
microbiome. Therefore, we kept five termite species under strictly controlled 
dietary conditions and subsequently profiled their protist and bacterial gut 
microbial communities using 18S and 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. The 
species differed in their ecology; while three of the investigated species were 
wood-dwellers that feed on the piece of wood they live in and never leave except 
for the mating flight, the other two species were foragers that regularly leave 
their nests to forage for food. Despite these prominent ecological differences, 
protist microbiome structure aligned with phylogenetic relatedness of termite 
host species. Conversely, bacterial communities seemed more flexible, suggesting 
that microbiome structure aligned more strongly with the foraging and 
wood-dwelling ecologies. Interestingly, protist and bacterial community 
alpha-diversity correlated, suggesting either putative interactions between 
protists and bacteria, or that both types of microbes in the termite gut follow 
shared structuring principles. Taken together, our results add to the notion 
that bacterial communities are more variable over evolutionary time than protist 
communities and might react more flexibly to changes in host ecology.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.02518
PMCID: PMC5742190
PMID: 29312218


47. Microbiome. 2018 Dec 20;6(1):228. doi: 10.1186/s40168-018-0612-3.

Design and application of a novel two-amplicon approach for defining eukaryotic 
microbiota.

Popovic A(1)(2), Bourdon C(3)(4), Wang PW(5)(6), Guttman DS(5)(6), Voskuijl 
W(4)(7)(8), Grigg ME(9), Bandsma RHJ(3)(4)(10)(11)(12)(13), Parkinson 
J(14)(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)Program in Molecular Medicine, The Hospital for Sick Children, Peter Gilgan 
Centre for Research and Learning, 686 Bay Street, Toronto, ON, M5G 0A4, Canada.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Medical Sciences Building, 
1 King's College Circle Suite 5207, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A8, Canada.
(3)Program in Translational Medicine, The Hospital for Sick Children, Peter 
Gilgan Center for Research and Learning, 686 Bay Street, Toronto, ON, M5G 0A4, 
Canada.
(4)The Childhood Acute Illness & Nutrition Network (CHAIN), Nairobi Coordination 
Centre, P.O Box 43640-00100, 197 Lenana Place 2nd Floor, Nairobi, Kenya.
(5)Department of Cell and Systems Biology, University of Toronto, 25 Harbord St, 
Toronto, ON, M5S 3G5, Canada.
(6)Centre for the Analysis of Genome Evolution and Function, University of 
Toronto, 25 Willcocks St Suite 4038, Toronto, ON, M5S 3B2, Canada.
(7)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, the College of Medicine, 
University of Malawi, Mahatma Gandhi, Private Bag 360, Chichiri, Blantyre, 
Malawi.
(8)Global Child Health Group, Emma Children's Hospital, Academic Medical Center, 
Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(9)Molecular Parasitology Section, Laboratory of Parasitic Diseases, NIAID, 
National Institutes of Health, 5601 Fishers Lane, MSC 9806, Bethesda, MD, 
20892-9806, USA.
(10)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, Hospital for Sick 
Children, 525 University Avenue, Toronto, ON, M5G 2L3, Canada.
(11)Centre for Global Child Health, Hospital for Sick Children, 525 University 
Avenue Suite 702, Toronto, ON, M5G 2L3, Canada.
(12)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Toronto, Medical Sciences 
Building, 1 King's College Circle Suite 5253A, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A8, Canada.
(13)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Medicine, University of 
Malawi, Mahatma Gandhi, Private Bag 360 Chichiri, Blantyre, Malawi.
(14)Program in Molecular Medicine, The Hospital for Sick Children, Peter Gilgan 
Centre for Research and Learning, 686 Bay Street, Toronto, ON, M5G 0A4, Canada. 
john.parkinson@utoronto.ca.
(15)Department of Biochemistry, University of Toronto, Medical Sciences 
Building, 1 King's College Circle Suite 5207, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A8, Canada. 
john.parkinson@utoronto.ca.
(16)Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Medical Sciences 
Building, 1 King's College Circle Suite 4386, Toronto, ON, M5S 1A8, Canada. 
john.parkinson@utoronto.ca.

BACKGROUND: Due to a lack of systematic diagnostics, our understanding of the 
diversity and role of eukaryotic microbiota in human health is limited. While 
studies have shown fungal communities to be significant modulators of human 
health, information on the prevalence of taxa such as protozoa and helminths has 
been limited to a small number of species for which targeted molecular 
diagnostics are available. To probe the diversity of eukaryotic microbes and 
their relationships with other members of the microbiota, we applied in silico 
and experimental approaches to design a novel two-amplicon surveillance tool, 
based on sequencing regions of ribosomal RNA genes and their internal 
transcribed spacers. We subsequently demonstrated the utility of our approach by 
characterizing the eukaryotic microbiota of 46 hospitalized Malawian children 
suffering from Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM).
RESULTS: Through in silico analysis and validation on a diverse panel of 
eukaryotes, we identified 18S rRNA variable genetic regions 4 and 5 (18S V4 V5), 
together with a region encoding 28S rRNA variable genetic region 2 and the 
internal transcribed spacers (transITS), as optimal for the systematic 
classification of eukaryotes. Sequencing of these regions revealed protozoa in 
all stool samples from children with SAM and helminths in most, including 
several eukaryotes previously implicated in malnutrition and diarrheal disease. 
Clinical comparisons revealed no association between protozoan parasites and 
diarrhea or HIV reactivity. However, the presence of Blastocystis correlated 
with bacterial alpha diversity and increased abundance of specific taxa, 
including Sporobacter, Cellulosibacter, Oscillibacter, and Roseburia.
CONCLUSION: We suggest this novel two-amplicon based strategy will prove an 
effective tool to deliver new insights into the role of eukaryotic microbiota in 
health and disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-018-0612-3
PMCID: PMC6302507
PMID: 30572961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Study approval was obtained from the Research Ethics Board at The Hospital for 
Sick Children (Toronto, Canada) and the College of Medicine Research Ethics 
Committee at the University of Malawi (Blantyre, Malawi). Samples were collected 
with informed consent by study participants. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not 
applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


48. Front Cell Infect Microbiol. 2017 Jun 16;7:262. doi: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00262. 
eCollection 2017.

The Intestinal Eukaryotic and Bacterial Biome of Spotted Hyenas: The Impact of 
Social Status and Age on Diversity and Composition.

Heitlinger E(1)(2), Ferreira SCM(3), Thierer D(3), Hofer H(3), East ML(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Group Ecology and Evolution of Molecular Parasite Host Interactions, 
Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife ResearchBerlin, Germany.
(2)Institute for Biology, Molecular Parasitology, Humboldt UniversityBerlin, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Evolutionary Ecology, Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife 
ResearchBerlin, Germany.

In mammals, two factors likely to affect the diversity and composition of 
intestinal bacteria (bacterial microbiome) and eukaryotes (eukaryome) are social 
status and age. In species in which social status determines access to 
resources, socially dominant animals maintain better immune processes and health 
status than subordinates. As high species diversity is an index of ecosystem 
health, the intestinal biome of healthier, socially dominant animals should be 
more diverse than those of subordinates. Gradual colonization of the juvenile 
intestine after birth predicts lower intestinal biome diversity in juveniles 
than adults. We tested these predictions on the effect of: (1) age 
(juvenile/adult) and (2) social status (low/high) on bacterial microbiome and 
eukaryome diversity and composition in the spotted hyena (Crocuta crocuta), a 
highly social, female-dominated carnivore in which social status determines 
access to resources. We comprehensively screened feces from 35 individually 
known adult females and 7 juveniles in the Serengeti ecosystem for bacteria and 
eukaryotes, using a set of 48 different amplicons (4 for bacterial 16S, 44 for 
eukaryote 18S) in a multi-amplicon sequencing approach. We compared sequence 
abundances to classical coprological egg or oocyst counts. For all parasite taxa 
detected in more than six samples, the number of sequence reads significantly 
predicted the number of eggs or oocysts counted, underscoring the value of an 
amplicon sequencing approach for quantitative measurements of parasite load. In 
line with our predictions, our results revealed a significantly less diverse 
microbiome in juveniles than adults and a significantly higher diversity of 
eukaryotes in high-ranking than low-ranking animals. We propose that 
free-ranging wildlife can provide an intriguing model system to assess the 
adaptive value of intestinal biome diversity for both bacteria and eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.3389/fcimb.2017.00262
PMCID: PMC5472691
PMID: 28670573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Front Microbiol. 2017 Jul 13;8:1312. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.01312. eCollection 
2017.

Eelgrass Leaf Surface Microbiomes Are Locally Variable and Highly Correlated 
with Epibiotic Eukaryotes.

Bengtsson MM(1), Bühler A(2), Brauer A(1), Dahlke S(3), Schubert H(2), Blindow 
I(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, University of GreifswaldGreifswald, Germany.
(2)Institut für Biowissenschaften, University of RostockRostock, Germany.
(3)Biological Station of Hiddensee, University of GreifswaldKloster, Germany.

Eelgrass (Zostera marina) is a marine foundation species essential for coastal 
ecosystem services around the northern hemisphere. Like all macroscopic 
organisms, it possesses a microbiome (here defined as an associated prokaryotic 
community) which may play critical roles in modulating the interaction of 
eelgrass with its environment. For example, its leaf surface microbiome could 
inhibit or attract eukaryotic epibionts which may overgrow the eelgrass leading 
to reduced primary productivity and subsequent eelgrass meadow decline. We used 
amplicon sequencing of the 16S and 18S rRNA genes of prokaryotes and eukaryotes 
to assess the leaf surface microbiome (prokaryotes) as well as eukaryotic 
epibionts in- and outside lagoons on the German Baltic Sea coast. Prokaryote 
microbiomes varied substantially both between sites inside lagoons and between 
open coastal and lagoon sites. Water depth, leaf area and biofilm chlorophyll a 
concentration explained a large amount of variation in both prokaryotic and 
eukaryotic community composition. The prokaryotic microbiome and eukaryotic 
epibiont communities were highly correlated, and network analysis revealed 
disproportionate co-occurrence between a limited number of eukaryotic taxa and 
several bacterial taxa. This suggests that eelgrass leaf surfaces are home to a 
mosaic of microbiomes of several epibiotic eukaryotes, in addition to the 
microbiome of the eelgrass itself. Our findings thereby underline that 
eukaryotic diversity should be taken into account in order to explain 
prokaryotic microbiome assembly and dynamics in aquatic environments.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.01312
PMCID: PMC5507959
PMID: 28751881


50. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2017 Oct 1;93(10):fix121. doi: 10.1093/femsec/fix121.

Primary and heterotrophic productivity relate to multikingdom diversity in a 
hypersaline mat.

Bernstein HC(1)(2), Brislawn CJ(1), Dana K(3), Flores-Wentz T(1), Cory AB(3), 
Fansler SJ(1), Fredrickson JK(1), Moran JJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Biological Sciences Division, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, 
Richland, WA 99352, USA.
(2)The Gene and Linda Voiland School of Chemical Engineering and Bioengineering, 
Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164, USA.
(3)Signature Science and Technology Division, Pacific Northwest National 
Laboratory, Richland, WA 99352, USA.

Benthic microbial ecosystems are widespread yet knowledge gaps still remain on 
the relationships between the diversity of species across kingdoms and 
productivity. Here, we ask two fundamental questions: (i) How does species 
diversity relate to the rates of primary and heterotrophic productivity? (ii) 
How do diel variations in light-energy inputs influence productivity and 
microbiome diversity? To answer these questions, microbial mats from a magnesium 
sulfate hypersaline lake were used to establish microcosms. Both the number and 
relatedness between bacterial and eukaryotic taxa in the microbiome were assayed 
via amplicon-based sequencing of 16S and 18S rRNA genes over two diel cycles. 
These results correlated with biomass productivity obtained from 
substrate-specific 13C stable isotope tracers that enabled comparisons between 
primary and heterotrophic productivity. Both bacterial and eukaryotic species 
richness and evenness were related only to the rates of 13C-labeled glucose and 
acetate biomass incorporation. Interestingly, measures of these heterotrophic 
relationships changed from positive and negative correlations depending on 
carbon derived from glucose or acetate, respectively. The bacterial and 
eukaryotic diversity of this ecosystem is also controlled, in part, from energy 
constraints imposed by changing irradiance over a diel cycle.

© FEMS 2017.

DOI: 10.1093/femsec/fix121
PMCID: PMC5812518
PMID: 29045626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Microb Ecol. 2018 Jul;76(1):205-214. doi: 10.1007/s00248-017-1108-6. Epub 2017 
Nov 16.

Co-Variation of Bacterial and Fungal Communities in Different Sorghum Cultivars 
and Growth Stages is Soil Dependent.

Schlemper TR(1)(2), van Veen JA(1), Kuramae EE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology 
(NIOO-KNAW), Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Biology, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology 
(NIOO-KNAW), Wageningen, The Netherlands. E.Kuramae@nioo.knaw.nl.

Rhizosphere microbial community composition can be influenced by different 
biotic and abiotic factors. We investigated the composition and co-variation of 
rhizosphere bacterial and fungal communities from two sorghum genotypes (BRS330 
and SRN-39) in three different plant growth stages (emergence of the second 
leaf, (day10), vegetative to reproductive differentiation point (day 35), and at 
the last visible emerged leaf (day 50)) in two different soil types, Clue field 
(CF) and Vredepeel (VD). We observed that either bacterial or fungal community 
had its composition stronger influenced by soil followed by plant growth stage 
and cultivar. However, the influence of plant growth stage was higher on fungal 
community composition than on the bacterial community composition. Furthermore, 
we showed that sorghum rhizosphere bacterial and fungal communities can affect 
each other's composition and structure. The decrease in relative abundance of 
the fungus genus Gibberella over plant growth stages was followed by decrease of 
the bacterial families Oxalobacteracea and Sphingobacteriacea. Although cultivar 
effect was not the major responsible for bacterial and fungal community 
composition, cultivar SRN-39 showed to promote a stronger co-variance between 
bacterial and fungal communities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-017-1108-6
PMCID: PMC6061463
PMID: 29147973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: All authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. ETHICAL APPROVAL: This article does not 
contain any studies with human participants or animals performed by any of the 
authors.


52. Front Microbiol. 2019 Mar 29;10:481. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.00481. eCollection 
2019.

Fungal-Bacterial Networks in the Populus Rhizobiome Are Impacted by Soil 
Properties and Host Genotype.

Bonito G(1)(2), Benucci GMN(1)(2), Hameed K(3), Weighill D(4)(5), Jones P(4)(5), 
Chen KH(6), Jacobson D(4)(5), Schadt C(4), Vilgalys R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Soil and Microbial Sciences, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, MI, United States.
(2)Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center, East Lansing, MI, United States.
(3)Department of Biology, Duke University, Durham, NC, United States.
(4)Biosciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, United 
States.
(5)The Bredesen Center for Interdisciplinary Research and Graduate Education, 
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Knoxville, TN, United States.
(6)Department of Soil and Water Sciences, University of Florida, Quincy, FL, 
United States.

Plant root-associated microbial symbionts comprise the plant rhizobiome. These 
microbes function in provisioning nutrients and water to their hosts, impacting 
plant health and disease. The plant microbiome is shaped by plant species, plant 
genotype, soil and environmental conditions, but the contributions of these 
variables are hard to disentangle from each other in natural systems. We used 
bioassay common garden experiments to decouple plant genotype and soil property 
impacts on fungal and bacterial community structure in the Populus rhizobiome. 
High throughput amplification and sequencing of 16S, ITS, 28S and 18S rDNA was 
accomplished through 454 pyrosequencing. Co-association patterns of fungal and 
bacterial taxa were assessed with 16S and ITS datasets. Community bipartite 
fungal-bacterial networks and PERMANOVA results attribute significant difference 
in fungal or bacterial communities to soil origin, soil chemical properties and 
plant genotype. Indicator species analysis identified a common set of root 
bacteria as well as endophytic and ectomycorrhizal fungi associated with Populus 
in different soils. However, no single taxon, or consortium of microbes, was 
indicative of a particular Populus genotype. Fungal-bacterial networks were 
over-represented in arbuscular mycorrhizal, endophytic, and ectomycorrhizal 
fungi, as well as bacteria belonging to the orders Rhizobiales, Chitinophagales, 
Cytophagales, and Burkholderiales. These results demonstrate the importance of 
soil and plant genotype on fungal-bacterial networks in the belowground plant 
microbiome.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.00481
PMCID: PMC6450171
PMID: 30984119


53. Front Microbiol. 2019 Aug 22;10:1937. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01937. eCollection 
2019.

Root-Associated Microbial Communities of Abies nordmanniana: Insights Into 
Interactions of Microbial Communities With Antioxidative Enzymes and Plant 
Growth.

Garcia-Lemos AM(1), Großkinsky DK(1)(2), Stokholm MS(1), Lund OS(1), Nicolaisen 
MH(1), Roitsch TG(1)(2), Veierskov B(1), Nybroe O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Science, 
University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark.
(2)Copenhagen Plant Science Centre, Faculty of Science, University of 
Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark.

Abies nordmanniana is a major Christmas tree species in Europe, but their uneven 
and prolonged growth slows down their production. By a 16S and 18S rRNA gene 
amplicon sequencing approach, we performed a characterization of root-associated 
bacterial and fungal communities for three-year-old A. nordmanniana plants 
collected from two nurseries in Denmark and Germany and displaying different 
growth patterns (small versus tall plants). Proteobacteria had the highest 
relative abundance at both sampling sites and plant sizes, and Ascomycota was 
the most abundant fungal phylum. At the order level, Acidobacteriales, 
Actinomycetales, Burkholderiales, Rhizobiales, and Xanthomonadales represented 
the bacterial core microbiome of A. nordmanniana, independently of the sampling 
site or plant size, while the fungal core microbiome included members of the 
Agaricales, Hypocreales, and Pezizales. Principal Coordinate Analysis indicated 
that both bacterial and fungal communities clustered according to the sampling 
site pointing to the significance of soil characteristics and climatic 
conditions for the composition of root-associated microbial communities. Major 
differences between communities from tall and small plants were a dominance of 
the potential pathogen Fusarium (Hypocreales) in the small plants from Germany, 
while Agaricales, that includes reported beneficial ectomycorrhizal fungi, 
dominated in the tall plants. An evaluation of plant root antioxidative enzyme 
profiles showed higher levels of the antioxidative enzymes ascorbate peroxidase, 
peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase in small plants compared to tall plants. We 
suggest that the higher antioxidative enzyme activities combined with the growth 
arrest phenotype indicate higher oxidative stress levels in the small plants. 
Additionally, the correlations between the relative abundances of specific taxa 
of the microbiome with the plant antioxidative enzyme profiles were established. 
The main result was that many more bacterial taxa correlated positively than 
negatively with one or more antioxidative enzyme activity. This may suggest that 
the ability of bacteria to increase plant antioxidative enzyme defenses is 
widespread.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01937
PMCID: PMC6714061
PMID: 31507556


54. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 16;9(1):14883. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51570-6.

Bacterial, archaeal and micro-eukaryotic communities characterize a 
disease-suppressive or conducive soil and a cultivar resistant or susceptible to 
common scab.

Kopecky J(1), Samkova Z(1), Sarikhani E(1), Kyselková M(2), Omelka M(3), 
Kristufek V(2), Divis J(4), Grundmann GG(5), Moënne-Loccoz Y(5), 
Sagova-Mareckova M(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Crop Research Institute, Epidemiology and Ecology of Microorganisms, Drnovská 
509, 161 06, Prague 6, Czech Republic.
(2)Biology Centre of the Czech Academy of Sciences, v. v. i., Institute of Soil 
Biology, Na Sádkách 7, 370 05, České Budějovice, Czech Republic.
(3)Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Department of Probability and 
Mathematical Statistics, Charles University, Sokolovská 83, 186 75, Prague 8, 
Czech Republic.
(4)Faculty of Agriculture, University of South Bohemia, Studentská 13, 370 05, 
České Budějovice, Czech Republic.
(5)Univ Lyon, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, CNRS, INRA, VetAgro Sup, UMR5557 
Ecologie Microbienne, F-69622, Villeurbanne, France.
(6)Crop Research Institute, Epidemiology and Ecology of Microorganisms, Drnovská 
509, 161 06, Prague 6, Czech Republic. sagova@vurv.cz.
(7)Department of Microbiology, Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Agrobiology, 
Food and Natural Resources, Czech University of Life Sciences, Kamycka 129, 
Prague 6, Czech Republic. sagova@vurv.cz.

Control of common scab disease can be reached by resistant cultivars or 
suppressive soils. Both mechanisms are likely to translate into particular 
potato microbiome profiles, but the relative importance of each is not known. 
Here, microbiomes of bulk and tuberosphere soil and of potato periderm were 
studied in one resistant and one susceptible cultivar grown in a conducive and a 
suppressive field. Disease severity was suppressed similarly by both means yet, 
the copy numbers of txtB gene (coding for a pathogenicity determinant) were 
similar in both soils but higher in periderms of the susceptible cultivar from 
conducive soil. Illumina sequencing of 16S rRNA genes for bacteria (completed by 
16S rRNA microarray approach) and archaea, and of 18S rRNA genes for 
micro-eukarytes showed that in bacteria, the more important was the effect of 
cultivar and diversity decreased from resistant cultivar to bulk soil to 
susceptible cultivar. The major changes occurred in proportions of 
Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Proteobacteria. In archaea and 
micro-eukaryotes, differences were primarily due to the suppressive and 
conducive soil. The effect of soil suppressiveness × cultivar resistance 
depended on the microbial community considered, but differed also with respect 
to soil and plant nutrient contents particularly in N, S and Fe.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51570-6
PMCID: PMC6796001
PMID: 31619759

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


55. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Feb;81(4):1327-37. doi: 10.1128/AEM.03138-14.

Prepartum and postpartum rumen fluid microbiomes: characterization and 
correlation with production traits in dairy cows.

Lima FS, Oikonomou G, Lima SF, Bicalho ML, Ganda EK, Filho JC, Lorenzo G, 
Trojacanec P, Bicalhoa RC.

Microbes present in the rumen of dairy cows are essential for degradation of 
cellulosic and nonstructural carbohydrates of plant origin. The prepartum and 
postpartum diets of high-producing dairy cows are substantially different, but 
in what ways the rumen microbiome changes in response and how those changes may 
influence production traits are not well elucidated. Here, we sequenced the 16S 
and 18S rRNA genes using the MiSeq platform to characterize the prepartum and 
postpartum rumen fluid microbiomes in 115 high-producing dairy cows, including 
both primiparous and multiparous animals. Discriminant analysis identified 
differences between the microbiomes of prepartum and postpartum samples and 
between primiparous and multiparous cows. 18S rRNA sequencing revealed an 
overwhelming dominance of the protozoan class Litostomatea, with over 90% of the 
eukaryotic microbial population belonging to that group. Additionally, fungi 
were relatively more prevalent and Litostomatea relatively less prevalent in 
prepartum samples than in postpartum ones. The core rumen microbiome (common to 
all samples) consisted of 64 bacterial taxa, of which members of the genus 
Prevotella were the most prevalent. The Chao1 richness index was greater for 
prepartum multiparous cows than for postpartum multiparous cows. Multivariable 
models identified bacterial taxa associated with increased or reduced milk 
production, and general linear models revealed that a metagenomically based 
prediction of productivity is highly associated with production of actual milk 
and milk components. In conclusion, the structure of the rumen fluid microbiome 
shifts between the prepartum and first-week postpartum periods, and its profile 
within the context of this study could be used to accurately predict production 
traits.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.03138-14
PMCID: PMC4309715
PMID: 25501481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. PLoS One. 2019 Nov 7;14(11):e0223067. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0223067. 
eCollection 2019.

Prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbiomes associated with blooms of the 
ichthyotoxic dinoflagellate Cochlodinium (Margalefidinium) polykrikoides in New 
York, USA, estuaries.

Hattenrath-Lehmann TK(1), Jankowiak J(1), Koch F(1), Gobler CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Stony Brook University, School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, 
Southampton, NY, United States of America.

While harmful algal blooms caused by the ichthyotoxic dinoflagellate, 
Cochlodinium (Margalefidinium) polykrikoides, are allelopathic and may have 
unique associations with bacteria, a comprehensive assessment of the planktonic 
communities associated with these blooms has been lacking. Here, we used 
high-throughput amplicon sequencing to assess size fractionated (0.2 and 5 μm) 
bacterial (16S) and phytoplankton assemblages (18S) associated with blooms of C. 
polykrikoides during recurrent blooms in NY, USA. Over a three-year period, 
samples were collected inside ('patch') and outside ('non-patch') dense 
accumulations of C. polykrikoides to assess the microbiome associated with these 
blooms. Eukaryotic plankton communities of blooms had significantly lower 
diversity than non-bloom samples, and non-bloom samples hosted 30 eukaryotic 
operational taxonomic units (OTUs) not found within blooms, suggesting they may 
have been allelopathically excluded from blooms. Differential abundance analyses 
revealed that C. polykrikoides blooms were significantly enriched in 
dinoflagellates (p<0.001) and the experimental enrichment of C. polykrikoides 
led to a significant increase in the relative abundance of eight genera of 
dinoflagellates but a significant decline in other eukaryotic plankton. 
Amoebophrya co-dominated both within- and near- C. polykrikoides blooms and was 
more abundant in bloom patches. The core bacterial microbiome of the >0.2μm 
fraction of blooms was dominated by an uncultured bacterium from the SAR11 
clade, while the >5μm size fraction was co-dominated by an uncultured bacterium 
from Rhodobacteraceae and Coraliomargarita. Two bacterial lineages within the 
>0.2μm fraction, as well as the Gammaproteobacterium, Halioglobus, from the >5μm 
fraction were unique to the microbiome of blooms, while there were 154 bacterial 
OTUs only found in non-bloom waters. Collectively, these findings reveal the 
unique composition and potential function of eukaryotic and prokaryotic 
communities associated with C. polykrikoides blooms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0223067
PMCID: PMC6837389
PMID: 31697694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


57. Microbes Environ. 2018 Sep 29;33(3):290-300. doi: 10.1264/jsme2.ME18065. Epub 
2018 Aug 24.

Molecular Detection of Eukaryotic Diets and Gut Mycobiomes in Two Marine 
Sediment-Dwelling Worms, Sipunculus nudus and Urechis unicinctus.

Wang Y(1)(2), Shi T(3), Huang G(4), Gong J(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences.
(2)University of Chinese Academy of Sciences.
(3)School of Life Sciences, South China Normal University.
(4)Guangxi Institute of Oceanology.
(5)School of Marine Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University.

The present study aimed to reveal the eukaryotic diets of two economically 
important marine sediment-inhabiting worms, Sipunculus nudus (peanut worm) and 
Urechis unicinctus (spoon worm), using clone libraries and phylogenetic analyses 
of 18S rRNA genes. Fungal rDNA was also targeted and analyzed to reveal 
mycobiomes. Overall, we detected a wide range of eukaryotic phylotypes 
associated with the larvae of S. nudus and in the gut contents of both worms. 
These phylotypes included ciliates, diatoms, dinoflagellates, eustigmatophytes, 
placidids, oomycetes, fungi, nematodes, flatworms, seaweeds, and higher plants. 
Oomycetes were associated with the planktonic larvae of S. nudus. The 
composition of eukaryotic diets shifted greatly across the larval, juvenile, and 
adult stages of S. nudus, and among different gut sections in U. unicinctus, 
reflecting lifestyle changes during the ontogeny of the peanut worm and 
progressive digestion in the spoon worm. Malassezia-like fungi were prevalent in 
mycobiomes. Epicoccum and Trichosporon-related phylotypes dominated mycobiomes 
associated with larval individuals and in the gut contents of adults, 
respectively. The gut mycobiome of S. nudus was successively characterized 
through the midgut, aspiratory intestines, hindgut, and rectum as having a high 
proportion of Climacodon-Rhizochaete, Ceriporiopsis, 
Cladosporium-Pseudomicrostroma, and Malassezia-related species in the libraries. 
These results emphasize the dynamics of diets and gut mycobiomes in marine 
benthic animals.

DOI: 10.1264/jsme2.ME18065
PMCID: PMC6167119
PMID: 30146540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2019 Feb 20;85(5):e02634-18. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02634-18. 
Print 2019 Mar 1.

Towards Quantitative Microbiome Community Profiling Using Internal Standards.

Lin Y(1)(2), Gifford S(3), Ducklow H(4), Schofield O(5), Cassar N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Earth and Ocean Sciences, Nicholas School of the Environment, 
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA yajuan.lin@duke.edu 
Nicolas.Cassar@duke.edu.
(2)Université de Brest-UMR 6539 CNRS/UBO/IRD/Ifremer, Laboratoire des Sciences 
de l'Environnement Marin-IUEM, Plouzané, France.
(3)Department of Marine Sciences, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University, Palisades, New York, 
USA.
(5)Rutgers University's Center for Ocean Observing Leadership, Department of 
Marine and Coastal Sciences, School of Environmental and Biological Sciences, 
Rutgers University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.

An inherent issue in high-throughput rRNA gene tag sequencing microbiome surveys 
is that they provide compositional data in relative abundances. This often leads 
to spurious correlations, making the interpretation of relationships to 
biogeochemical rates challenging. To overcome this issue, we quantitatively 
estimated the abundance of microorganisms by spiking in known amounts of 
internal DNA standards. Using a 3-year sample set of diverse microbial 
communities from the Western Antarctica Peninsula, we demonstrated that the 
internal standard method yielded community profiles and taxon cooccurrence 
patterns substantially different from those derived using relative abundances. 
We found that the method provided results consistent with the traditional 
CHEMTAX analysis of pigments and total bacterial counts by flow cytometry. Using 
the internal standard method, we also showed that chloroplast 16S rRNA gene data 
in microbial surveys can be used to estimate abundances of certain eukaryotic 
phototrophs such as cryptophytes and diatoms. In Phaeocystis, scatter in the 
16S/18S rRNA gene ratio may be explained by physiological adaptation to 
environmental conditions. We conclude that the internal standard method, when 
applied to rRNA gene microbial community profiling, is quantitative and that its 
application will substantially improve our understanding of microbial 
ecosystems.IMPORTANCE High-throughput-sequencing-based marine microbiome 
profiling is rapidly expanding and changing how we study the oceans. Although 
powerful, the technique is not fully quantitative; it provides taxon counts only 
in relative abundances. In order to address this issue, we present a method to 
quantitatively estimate microbial abundances per unit volume of seawater 
filtered by spiking known amounts of internal DNA standards into each sample. We 
validated this method by comparing the calculated abundances to other 
independent estimates, including chemical markers (pigments) and total bacterial 
cell counts by flow cytometry. The internal standard approach allows us to 
quantitatively estimate and compare marine microbial community profiles, with 
important implications for linking environmental microbiomes to quantitative 
processes such as metabolic and biogeochemical rates.

Copyright © 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02634-18
PMCID: PMC6384117
PMID: 30552195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Sci Rep. 2017 Feb 15;7:42634. doi: 10.1038/srep42634.

Organic nitrogen rearranges both structure and activity of the soil-borne 
microbial seedbank.

Leite MF(1)(2), Pan Y(1), Bloem J(3), Berge HT(4), Kuramae EE(1).

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO/KNAW), Department of Microbial 
Ecology, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Agroecology Program of Maranhão State University - UEMA, São Luís - MA, 
Brazil.
(3)Alterra, Wageningen UR, The Netherlands.
(4)Plant Research International, Wageningen UR, The Netherlands.

Use of organic amendments is a valuable strategy for crop production. However, 
it remains unclear how organic amendments shape both soil microbial community 
structure and activity, and how these changes impact nutrient mineralization 
rates. We evaluated the effect of various organic amendments, which range in 
Carbon/Nitrogen (C/N) ratio and degradability, on the soil microbiome in a 
mesocosm study at 32, 69 and 132 days. Soil samples were collected to determine 
community structure (assessed by 16S and 18S rRNA gene sequences), microbial 
biomass (fungi and bacteria), microbial activity (leucine incorporation and 
active hyphal length), and carbon and nitrogen mineralization rates. We 
considered the microbial soil DNA as the microbial seedbank. High C/N ratio 
favored fungal presence, while low C/N favored dominance of bacterial 
populations. Our results suggest that organic amendments shape the soil 
microbial community structure through a feedback mechanism by which microbial 
activity responds to changing organic inputs and rearranges composition of the 
microbial seedbank. We hypothesize that the microbial seedbank composition 
responds to changing organic inputs according to the resistance and resilience 
of individual species, while changes in microbial activity may result in 
increases or decreases in availability of various soil nutrients that affect 
plant nutrient uptake.

DOI: 10.1038/srep42634
PMCID: PMC5309777
PMID: 28198425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


60. J Food Sci Technol. 2016 Jan;53(1):184-96. doi: 10.1007/s13197-015-2049-z. Epub 
2015 Oct 14.

Biochemical and molecular identification and characterization of lactic acid 
bacteria and yeasts isolated from Ethiopian naturally fermented buttermilk.

Gebreselassie N(1), Abay F(2), Beyene F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine and Biosciences, The Norwegian University of Life Sciences, 
Gransdalen 33A, P.O. Box 1054, Oslo, Norway ; Department of Food Sciences, 
Mekelle University, Mekelle, Tigray Ethiopia.
(2)Department of Food Sciences, Mekelle University, Mekelle, Tigray Ethiopia.
(3)Department of Food Technology and Process Engineering, Wollega University, 
Nekemte, Oromia Ethiopia.

Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) and yeasts were enumerated and identified from 
naturally fermented buttermilk. Isolates were first subjected to chemical tests 
and then to molecular characterization. Molecular identification involved pure 
sequencing of 16s rRNA (LAB) and 18s rRNA (yeast) genes. Polymerase Chain 
Reaction-Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (DGGE) was used for detection 
of microbiota composition. Eighty-five LAB and 26 yeast isolates obtained from 
16 small-scale dairy farms were isolated and identified. The microbial 
composition was dominated by strains of Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis, 
Lactobacillus plantarum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Molecular techniques 
enabled not only genetic confirmation but also detection of some uncultivated 
strains. The presence of diverse strains of LAB and yeasts in NFB indicated a 
potential for development of different starter cultures to make new dairy 
products.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-015-2049-z
PMCID: PMC4711473
PMID: 26787941


61. Front Microbiol. 2018 Oct 26;9:2435. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02435. eCollection 
2018.

Characterization of the Microbiome at the World's Largest Potable Water Reuse 
Facility.

Stamps BW(1), Leddy MB(2), Plumlee MH(2), Hasan NA(3), Colwell RR(3)(4), Spear 
JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Colorado School of Mines, 
Golden, CO, United States.
(2)Department of Research and Development, Orange County Water District, 
Fountain Valley, CA, United States.
(3)CosmosID, Inc., Rockville, MD, United States.
(4)Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland, 
College Park, MD, United States.

Conventional water resources are not sufficient in many regions to meet the 
needs of growing populations. Due to cyclical weather cycles, drought, and 
climate change, water stress has increased worldwide including in Southern 
California, which serves as a model for regions that integrate reuse of 
wastewater for both potable and non-potable use. The Orange County Water 
District (OCWD) Advanced Water Purification Facility (AWPF) is a highly 
engineered system designed to treat and produce up to 100 million gallons per 
day (MGD) of purified water from a municipal wastewater source for potable 
reuse. Routine facility microbial water quality analysis is limited to standard 
indicators at this and similar facilities. Given recent advances in high 
throughput DNA sequencing techniques, complete microbial profiling of 
communities in water samples is now possible. By using 16S/18S rRNA gene 
sequencing, metagenomic and metatranscriptomic sequencing coupled to a highly 
accurate identification method along with 16S rRNA gene qPCR, we describe a 
detailed view of the total microbial community throughout the facility. The 
total bacterial load of the water at stages of the treatment train ranged from 
3.02 × 106 copies in source, unchlorinated wastewater feed to 5.49 × 101 copies 
of 16S rRNA gene/mL after treatment (consisting of microfiltration, reverse 
osmosis, and ultraviolet/advanced oxidation). Microbial diversity and load 
decreased by several orders of magnitude after microfiltration and reverse 
osmosis treatment, falling to almost non-detectable levels that more closely 
resembled controls of molecular grade laboratory water than the biomass detected 
in the source water. The presence of antibiotic resistance genes and viruses was 
also greatly reduced. Overall, system design performance was achieved, and 
comprehensive microbial community analysis was found to enable a more complete 
characterization of the water/wastewater microbial signature.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02435
PMCID: PMC6212505
PMID: 30416489


62. PLoS One. 2020 Jan 14;15(1):e0227561. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0227561. 
eCollection 2020.

Parasites modulate the gut-microbiome in insects: A proof-of-concept study.

Fredensborg BL(1), Fossdal Í Kálvalíð I(1), Johannesen TB(2), Stensvold CR(2), 
Nielsen HV(2), Kapel CMO(1).

Author information:
(1)Section for Organismal Biology, Department of Plant and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Infection Control, Statens Serum Institut, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Host-parasite interactions may be modulated by host- or parasite-associated 
microbes, but the role of these are often overlooked. Particularly for parasites 
with intestinal stages (either larval or adult), the host gut microbiome may 
play a key role for parasite establishment; moreover, the microbiome may change 
in response to invading parasites. Hypothesis testing at the organismal level 
may be hampered, particularly in mammalian definitive hosts, by ethical, 
logistical, and economical restrictions. Thus, invertebrates naturally serving 
as intermediate hosts to parasites with complex life cycles may inform the 
development of mammalian models as an early-stage host-parasite model. In 
addition, several important pathogens are vectored by insects, and insect gut 
microbiome-pathogen interactions may provide essential base-line knowledge, 
which may be used to control vectorborne pathogens. Here, we used the grain 
beetle, Tenebrio molitor, a host of the tapeworm Hymenolepis diminuta, to 
explore interactions between infection status and resident gut microbiota at two 
pre-determined time points (day two and seven) post infection. Using 16S/18S 
microbial profiling, we measured key parameters of the composition, relative 
abundance, and diversity of the host gut bacteriome and mycobiome. In addition, 
we quantified the systemic beetle immune response to infection by Phenoloxidase 
activity and hemocyte abundance. We found significant changes in the gut 
bacteriome and mycobiome in relation to infection status and beetle age. Thus, 
the relative abundance of Proteobacteria was significantly higher in the gut of 
infected beetles and driven mostly by an increased abundance of Acinetobacter. 
In addition, the mycobiome was less abundant in infected beetles but maintained 
higher Shannon diversity in infected compared with non-infected beetles. Beetles 
treated with a broad-spectrum antibiotic (Tetracycline) exhibited significantly 
reduced parasite establishment compared with the untreated control group, 
indicating that the host microbiome may greatly influence hatching of eggs and 
subsequent establishment of H. diminuta larvae. Our results suggest that 
experimental work using invertebrates may provide a platform for explorative 
studies of host-parasite-microbe interactions and their underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0227561
PMCID: PMC6959588
PMID: 31935259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


63. BMC Microbiol. 2017 Mar 3;17(1):50. doi: 10.1186/s12866-017-0947-0.

Bacterial and fungal core microbiomes associated with small grain silages during 
ensiling and aerobic spoilage.

Duniere L(1), Xu S(1), Long J(1), Elekwachi C(1), Wang Y(1), Turkington K(2), 
Forster R(1), McAllister TA(3).

Author information:
(1)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada Research Centre, Lethbridge, T1J 4B1, AB, 
Canada.
(2)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC), Lacombe, T4L 1 W1, AB, Canada.
(3)Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada Research Centre, Lethbridge, T1J 4B1, AB, 
Canada. tim.mcallister@agr.gc.ca.

BACKGROUND: Describing the microbial populations present in small grain silage 
and understanding their changes during ensiling is of interest for improving the 
nutrient value of these important forage crops. Barley, oat and triticale 
forages as well as an intercropped mixture of the 3 crops were harvested and 
ensiled in mini silos for a period of 90 days, followed by 14 days of aerobic 
exposure. Changes in fermentation characteristics and nutritive value were 
assessed in terminal silages and bacterial and fungal communities during 
ensiling and aerobic exposure were described using 16S and 18S rDNA sequencing, 
respectively.
RESULTS: All small grain silages exhibited chemical traits that were associated 
with well ensiled forages, such as low pH value (4.09 ± 0.28) and high levels of 
lactic acid (59.8 ± 14.59 mg/g DM). The number of microbial core genome 
operational taxonomic units (OTUs) decreased with time of ensiling. Taxonomic 
bacterial community profiles were dominated by the Lactobacillales after 
fermentation, with a notable increase in Bacillales as a result of aerobic 
exposure. Diversity of the fungal core microbiome was shown to also be reduced 
during ensiling. Operational taxonomic units assigned to filamentous fungi were 
found in the core microbiome at ensiling and after aerobic exposure, whereas the 
Saccharomycetales were the dominate yeast population after 90 days of ensiling 
and aerobic exposure. Bacterial and fungal orders typically associated with 
silage spoilage were identified in the core microbiome after aerobic exposure.
CONCLUSION: Next Generation Sequencing was successfully used to describe 
bacterial communities and the first record of fungal communities throughout the 
process of ensiling and utilization. Adequately describing the microbial ecology 
of silages could lead to improved ensiling practices and the selection of silage 
inoculants that act synergistically with the natural forage microbiome.

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-017-0947-0
PMCID: PMC5335695
PMID: 28253864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. ISME J. 2019 Nov;13(11):2750-2763. doi: 10.1038/s41396-019-0467-z. Epub 2019 Jul 
9.

Patterns of protist diversity associated with raw sewage in New York City.

Maritz JM(1), Ten Eyck TA(1), Elizabeth Alter S(2)(3), Carlton JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York 
University, 12 Waverly Place, New York, NY, 10003, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, York College, City University of New York, New York, 
NY, USA.
(3)The Graduate Center of the City University of New York, 365 Fifth Avenue, New 
York, NY, 10016, USA.
(4)Department of Biology, Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York 
University, 12 Waverly Place, New York, NY, 10003, USA. jane.carlton@nyu.edu.

Protists are ubiquitous components of terrestrial and aquatic environments, as 
well as animal and human microbiomes. Despite this, little is known about 
protists in urban environments. The ~7400-mile sewer system of New York City 
(NYC) collects human waste from ~8 million human inhabitants as well as from 
animals, street runoff, and groundwater, providing an ideal system to study 
these microbes. We used 18S rRNA amplicon sequencing and shotgun metagenomic 
sequencing to profile raw sewage microbial communities. Raw sewage samples were 
collected over a 12-month period from 14 treatment plants of the five NYC 
boroughs, and compared with samples from other environments including soil, 
stormwater, and sediment. Sewage contained a diverse protist community dominated 
by free-living clades, and communities were highly differentiated across 
environments. Seasonal differences in protist composition were observed; 
however, network analysis and functional profiling demonstrated that sewage 
communities were robust and functionally consistent. Protists typically 
associated with human and animal guts or feces were frequently detected. 
Abundance of these parasites varied significantly both spatially and temporally, 
suggesting that spikes could reflect trends in the source population. This 
underscores sewage as a valuable model system for monitoring patterns in urban 
microbes and provides a baseline protist metagenome of NYC.

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-019-0467-z
PMCID: PMC6794324
PMID: 31289345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JMM is now an employee of Merck Research 
Laboratories. TAT is now an employee of Agilent Technologies.


65. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 14;14(2):e0212355. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0212355. 
eCollection 2019.

Community ecology across bacteria, archaea and microbial eukaryotes in the 
sediment and seawater of coastal Puerto Nuevo, Baja California.

Ul-Hasan S(1)(2), Bowers RM(3), Figueroa-Montiel A(4), Licea-Navarro AF(4), 
Beman JM(5), Woyke T(1)(3), Nobile CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, School of Natural Sciences, 
University of California Merced, Merced, CA, United States of America.
(2)Quantitative and Systems Biology Graduate Program, University of California 
Merced, Merced, CA, United States of America.
(3)Department of Energy, Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, CA, United States 
of America.
(4)Department of Biomedical Innovation, Centro de Investigación Científica y de 
Educación Superior de Ensenada (CICESE), Ensenada, Baja California, México.
(5)Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, School of Natural Sciences, 
University of California Merced, Merced, CA, United States of America.

Microbial communities control numerous biogeochemical processes critical for 
ecosystem function and health. Most analyses of coastal microbial communities 
focus on the characterization of bacteria present in either sediment or 
seawater, with fewer studies characterizing both sediment and seawater together 
at a given site, and even fewer studies including information about 
non-bacterial microbial communities. As a result, knowledge about the ecological 
patterns of microbial biodiversity across domains and habitats in coastal 
communities is limited-despite the fact that archaea, bacteria, and microbial 
eukaryotes are present and known to interact in coastal habitats. To better 
understand microbial biodiversity patterns in coastal ecosystems, we 
characterized sediment and seawater microbial communities for three sites along 
the coastline of Puerto Nuevo, Baja California, Mexico using both 16S and 18S 
rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. We found that sediment hosted approximately 
500-fold more operational taxonomic units (OTUs) for bacteria, archaea, and 
microbial eukaryotes than seawater (p < 0.001). Distinct phyla were found in 
sediment versus seawater samples. Of the top ten most abundant classes, 
Cytophagia (bacterial) and Chromadorea (eukaryal) were specific to the sediment 
environment, whereas Cyanobacteria and Bacteroidia (bacterial) and Chlorophyceae 
(eukaryal) were specific to the seawater environment. A total of 47 unique 
genera were observed to comprise the core taxa community across environment 
types and sites. No archaeal taxa were observed as part of either the abundant 
or core taxa. No significant differences were observed for sediment community 
composition across domains or between sites. For seawater, the bacterial and 
archaeal community composition was statistically different for the Major Outlet 
site (p < 0.05), the site closest to a residential area, and the eukaryal 
community composition was statistically different between all sites (p < 0.05). 
Our findings highlight the distinct patterns and spatial heterogeneity in 
microbial communities of a coastal region in Baja California, Mexico.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0212355
PMCID: PMC6375613
PMID: 30763377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


66. PeerJ. 2019 Sep 11;7:e7463. doi: 10.7717/peerj.7463. eCollection 2019.

Plant host and drought shape the root associated fungal microbiota in rice.

Andreo-Jimenez B(1)(2), Vandenkoornhuyse P(3), Lê Van A(3), Heutinck A(1), 
Duhamel M(3)(4), Kadam N(5), Jagadish K(5)(6), Ruyter-Spira C(1), Bouwmeester 
H(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Physiology, Wageningen University, Wageningen, 
Netherlands.
(2)Biointeractions & Plant Health Business Unit, Wageningen University & 
Research, Wageningen, Netherlands.
(3)EcoBio, Université Rennes I, Rennes, France.
(4)IBL Plant Sciences and Natural Products, Leiden University, Leiden, 
Netherlands.
(5)International Rice Research Institute, Los Baños, Philippines.
(6)Department of Agronomy, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS, United States 
of America.
(7)Plant Hormone Biology group, Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Water is an increasingly scarce resource while some crops, 
such as paddy rice, require large amounts of water to maintain grain production. 
A better understanding of rice drought adaptation and tolerance mechanisms could 
help to reduce this problem. There is evidence of a possible role of 
root-associated fungi in drought adaptation. Here, we analyzed the endospheric 
fungal microbiota composition in rice and its relation to plant genotype and 
drought.
METHODS: Fifteen rice genotypes (Oryza sativa ssp. indica) were grown in the 
field, under well-watered conditions or exposed to a drought period during 
flowering. The effect of genotype and treatment on the root fungal microbiota 
composition was analyzed by 18S ribosomal DNA high throughput sequencing. Grain 
yield was determined after plant maturation.
RESULTS: There was a host genotype effect on the fungal community composition. 
Drought altered the composition of the root-associated fungal community and 
increased fungal biodiversity. The majority of OTUs identified belonged to the 
Pezizomycotina subphylum and 37 of these significantly correlated with a higher 
plant yield under drought, one of them being assigned to Arthrinium 
phaeospermum.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that both plant genotype and drought affect the 
root-associated fungal community in rice and that some fungi correlate with 
improved drought tolerance. This work opens new opportunities for basic research 
on the understanding of how the host affects microbiota recruitment as well as 
the possible use of specific fungi to improve drought tolerance in rice.

©2019 Andreo-Jimenez et al.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.7463
PMCID: PMC6744933
PMID: 31565550

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


67. PLoS One. 2019 May 15;14(5):e0216882. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0216882. 
eCollection 2019.

Development of an autonomous biosampler to capture in situ aquatic microbiomes.

Ribeiro H(1)(2), Martins A(3)(4), Gonçalves M(3), Guedes M(3), Tomasino MP(1), 
Dias N(3)(4), Dias A(3)(4), Mucha AP(1), Carvalho MF(1), Almeida CMR(1), Ramos 
S(1)(5), Almeida JM(3)(4), Silva E(3)(4), Magalhães C(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)CIIMAR-Interdisciplinary Center of Marine and Environmental Research, 
University of Porto, Av. General Norton de Matos s/n, Matosinhos, Portugal.
(2)Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar (ICBAS-UP), University of 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(3)INESC TEC-INESC Technology and Science, Porto, Portugal.
(4)ISEP-School of Engineering, Polytechnic Institute of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(5)Institute of Estuarine and Coastal Studies, University of Hull, Hull, United 
Kingdom.
(6)FCUP-Faculty of Sciences of University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.

The importance of planktonic microbial communities is well acknowledged, since 
they are fundamental for several natural processes of aquatic ecosystems. 
Microorganisms naturally control the flux of nutrients, and also degrade and 
recycle anthropogenic organic and inorganic contaminants. Nevertheless, climate 
change effects and/or the runoff of nutrients/pollutants can affect the 
equilibrium of natural microbial communities influencing the occurrence of 
microbial pathogens and/or microbial toxin producers, which can compromise 
ecosystem environmental status. Therefore, improved microbial plankton 
monitoring is essential to better understand how these communities respond to 
environmental shifts. The study of marine microbial communities typically 
involves highly cost and time-consuming sampling procedures, which can limit the 
frequency of sampling and data availability. In this context, we developed and 
validated an in situ autonomous biosampler (IS-ABS) able to collect/concentrate 
in situ planktonic communities of different size fractions (targeting 
prokaryotes and unicellular eukaryotes) for posterior genomic, metagenomic, 
and/or transcriptomic analysis at a home laboratory. The IS-ABS field prototype 
is a small size and compact system able to operate up to 150 m depth. Water is 
pumped by a micropump (TCS MG2000) through a hydraulic circuit that allows in 
situ filtration of environmental water in one or more Sterivex filters placed in 
a filter cartridge. The IS-ABS also includes an application to program sampling 
definitions, allowing pre-setting configuration of the sampling. The efficiency 
of the IS-ABS was tested against traditional laboratory filtration standardized 
protocols. Results showed a good performance in terms of DNA recovery, as well 
as prokaryotic (16S rDNA) and eukaryotic (18S rDNA) community diversity 
analysis, using either methodologies. The IS-ABS automates the process of 
collecting environmental DNA, and is suitable for integration in water 
observation systems, what will contribute to substantially increase biological 
surveillances. Also, the use of highly sensitive genomic approaches allows a 
further study of the diversity and functions of whole or specific microbial 
communities.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0216882
PMCID: PMC6519839
PMID: 31091277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


68. PLoS One. 2019 Feb 25;14(2):e0204195. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204195. 
eCollection 2019.

Temporal dynamics of bacterial and fungal communities during the infection of 
Brassica rapa roots by the protist Plasmodiophora brassicae.

Lebreton L(1), Guillerm-Erckelboudt AY(1), Gazengel K(1), Linglin J(1), Ourry 
M(1), Glory P(1), Sarniguet A(1), Daval S(1), Manzanares-Dauleux MJ(1), Mougel 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)IGEPP, INRA, AGROCAMPUS OUEST, Université Rennes, Le Rheu, France.

The temporal dynamics of rhizosphere and root microbiota composition was 
compared between healthy and infected Chinese cabbage plants by the pathogen 
Plasmodiophora brassicae. When inoculated with P. brassicae, disease was 
measured at five sampling dates from early root hair infection to late gall 
development. The first symptoms of clubroot disease appeared 14 days after 
inoculation (DAI) and increased drastically between 14 and 35 DAI. The structure 
of microbial communities associated to rhizosphere soil and root from healthy 
and inoculated plants was characterized through high-throughput DNA sequencing 
of bacterial (16S) and fungal (18S) molecular markers and compared at each 
sampling date. In healthy plants, Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes bacterial 
phyla dominated the rhizosphere and root microbiota of Chinese cabbage. 
Rhizosphere bacterial communities contained higher abundances of Actinobacteria 
and Firmicutes compared to the roots. Moreover, a drastic shift of fungal 
communities of healthy plants occurred between the two last sampling dates, 
especially in plant roots, where most of Ascomycota fungi dominated until they 
were replaced by a fungus assigned to the Chytridiomycota phylum. Parasitic 
invasion by P. brassicae disrupted the rhizosphere and root-associated community 
assembly at a late step during the root secondary cortical infection stage of 
clubroot disease. At this stage, Flavisolibacter and Streptomyces in the 
rhizosphere, and Bacillus in the roots, were drastically less abundant upon 
parasite invasion. Rhizosphere of plants colonized by P. brassicae was 
significantly more invaded by the Chytridiomycota fungus, which could reflect a 
mutualistic relationship in this compartment between these two microorganisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0204195
PMCID: PMC6388920
PMID: 30802246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


69. Sci Rep. 2018 Jul 4;8(1):10096. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-28401-1.

Fungi in perennial ice from Scărișoara Ice Cave (Romania).

Brad T(1)(2), Itcus C(1)(3), Pascu MD(1), Perșoiu A(1)(2)(4), 
Hillebrand-Voiculescu A(1)(5), Iancu L(1), Purcarea C(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, 296 Splaiul Independenţei, 060031, Bucharest, Romania.
(2)Emil Racoviţă Institute of Speleology, Clinicilor 5, Cluj-Napoca, 400006, 
Romania.
(3)National Institute of Research and Development for Biological Sciences, 296 
Splaiul Independenţei, 060031, Bucharest, Romania.
(4)Ștefan cel Mare University, Suceava, Universității 13, 720229, Suceava, 
Romania.
(5)Emil Racoviţă Institute of Speleology, 31 Frumoasă St, 010986, Bucharest, 
Romania.
(6)Institute of Biology, 296 Splaiul Independenţei, 060031, Bucharest, Romania. 
cristina.purcarea@ibiol.ro.

Screening of 1,000-years old ice layers from the perennial ice block of 
Scărișoara Ice Cave (NW Romania) revealed the presence of fungal communities. 
Using culture-dependent methods and molecular techniques based on DGGE 
fingerprinting of 18S rRNA gene fragments and sequencing, we identified 50 
cultured and 14 uncultured fungi in presently-forming, 400 and 900 years old ice 
layers, corresponding to 28 distinct operational taxonomic units (OTUs). The 
dominant ice-contained fungal OTUs were related to Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and 
Cryptomycota phyla. Representatives of Mucoromycota and Chytridiomycota were 
also isolated from recent and 400 years old ice samples. The cryophilic Mrakia 
stokesii was the most abundant fungal species found in the cave ice samples of 
all prospected ages, alongside other cryophilic fungi also identified in various 
glacial environments. Ice deposits formed during the Little Ice Age (dated 
between AD 1,250 and 1,850) appeared to have a higher fungal diversity than the 
ice layer formed during the Medieval Warm Period (prior to AD 1,250). A more 
complex fungal community adapted to low temperatures was obtained from all 
analyzed ice layers when cultivated at 4 °C as compared to 15 °C, suggesting the 
dominance of cold-adapted fungi in this glacial habitat. The fungal distribution 
in the analyzed cave ice layers revealed the presence of unique OTUs in 
different aged-formed ice deposits, as a first hint for putative further 
identification of fungal biomarkers for climate variations in this icy habitat. 
This is the first report on fungi from a rock-hosted cave ice block.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-28401-1
PMCID: PMC6031636
PMID: 29973683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


70. Microbiome. 2018 Oct 18;6(1):184. doi: 10.1186/s40168-018-0570-9.

The response of dominant and rare taxa for fungal diversity within different 
root environments to the cultivation of Bt and conventional cotton varieties.

Li P(1)(2), Xue Y(3), Shi J(4), Pan A(5), Tang X(6), Ming F(7).

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Institute, Shanghai Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Shanghai, 201106, China. Pengli13@fudan.edu.cn.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Institute of Genetics, Institute 
of Plant Biology, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, 
China. Pengli13@fudan.edu.cn.
(3)Institute of Eco-Environment and Plant Protection, Shanghai Academy of 
Agricultural Sciences, Shanghai, 201403, China.
(4)Dezhou Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Dezhou, 253000, China.
(5)Biotechnology Research Institute, Shanghai Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Shanghai, 201106, China.
(6)Biotechnology Research Institute, Shanghai Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Shanghai, 201106, China. saas_xmtang@foxmail.com.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Institute of Genetics, Institute 
of Plant Biology, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200433, 
China. Fming@fudan.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) crops have been cultivated at a large 
scale over the past several decades, which have raised concern about unintended 
effects on natural environments. Microbial communities typically contain 
numerous rare taxa that make up the majority of community populations. However, 
the response of dominant and rare taxa for fungal diversity to the different 
root environments of Bt plants remains unclear.
RESULTS: We quantified fungal population sizes and community composition via 
quantitative PCR of ITS genes and 18S rRNA gene sequencing of, respectively, 
that were associated with Bt and conventional cotton variety rhizosphere soils 
from different plant growth stages. qPCR analyses indicated that fungal 
abundances reached their peak at the seedling stage and that the taproots and 
lateral root rhizospheres of the Bt cotton SGK321 were significantly different. 
However, no significant differences in population sizes were detected between 
the same root zones from Bt and the conventional cotton varieties. The overall 
patterns of fungal genera abundances followed that of the dominant genera, 
whereas overall patterns of fungal genera richness followed those of the rare 
genera. These results suggest that the dominant and rare taxa play different 
roles in the maintenance of rhizosphere microhabitat ecosystems. Cluster 
analyses indicated a separation of fungal communities based on the lateral roots 
or taproots from the three cotton varieties at the seedling stage, suggesting 
that root microhabitats had marked effects on fungal community composition. 
Redundancy analyses indicated that pH was more correlated to soil fungal 
community composition than Bt protein content.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, these results indicate that dominant and rare fungal 
taxa differentially contribute to community dynamics in different root 
microhabitats of both Bt and conventional cotton varieties. Moreover, these 
results showed that the rhizosphere fungal community of Bt cotton did not 
respond significantly to the presence of Bt protein when compared to the two 
conventional cotton varieties.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-018-0570-9
PMCID: PMC6194802
PMID: 30336777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Yes. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


71. AIMS Microbiol. 2018 Mar 20;4(2):240-260. doi: 10.3934/microbiol.2018.2.240. 
eCollection 2018.

Metatranscriptomics profile of the gill microbial community during Bathymodiolus 
azoricus aquarium acclimatization at atmospheric pressure.

Barros I(1)(2), Froufe H(3), Marnellos G(4), Egas C(3), Delaney J(4), Clamp 
M(5), Santos RS(1)(2)(6), Bettencourt R(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oceanography and Fisheries, University of the Azores, 9901-862 
Horta, Portugal.
(2)MARE-Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, 9901-862 Horta, Portugal.
(3)Next Generation Sequencing Unit-BIOCANT; Parque Tecnológico de Cantanhede, 
Núcleo 04, Lote 8, 3060-197 Cantanhede, Portugal.
(4)Harvard University, Informatics and Scientific Applications, 38 Oxford 
Street, Cambridge, MA 02138-2020, United States.
(5)Harvard University, Biological Laboratories, Room 3085, 16 Divinity Avenue, 
Cambridge, MA 02138-2020, United States.
(6)OKEANOS Center, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of the Azores, 
9901-862 Horta, Portugal.

BACKGROUND: The deep-sea mussels Bathymodiolus azoricus (Bivalvia: Mytilidae) 
are the dominant macrofauna subsisting at the hydrothermal vents site Menez Gwen 
in the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR). Their adaptive success in such challenging 
environments is largely due to their gill symbiotic association with 
chemosynthetic bacteria. We examined the response of vent mussels as they adapt 
to sea-level environmental conditions, through an assessment of the relative 
abundance of host-symbiont related RNA transcripts to better understand how the 
gill microbiome may drive host-symbiont interactions in vent mussels during 
hypothetical venting inactivity.
RESULTS: The metatranscriptome of B. azoricus was sequenced from gill tissues 
sampled at different time-points during a five-week acclimatization experiment, 
using Next-Generation-Sequencing. After Illumina sequencing, a total of 
181,985,262 paired-end reads of 150 bp were generated with an average of 
16,544,115 read per sample. Metatranscriptome analysis confirmed that 
experimental acclimatization in aquaria accounted for global gill transcript 
variation. Additionally, the analysis of 16S and 18S rRNA sequences data allowed 
for a comprehensive characterization of host-symbiont interactions, which 
included the gradual loss of gill endosymbionts and signaling pathways, 
associated with stress responses and energy metabolism, under experimental 
acclimatization. Dominant active transcripts were assigned to the following KEGG 
categories: "Ribosome", "Oxidative phosphorylation" and "Chaperones and folding 
catalysts" suggesting specific metabolic responses to physiological adaptations 
in aquarium environment.
CONCLUSIONS: Gill metagenomics analyses highlighted microbial diversity shifts 
and a clear pattern of varying mRNA transcript abundancies and expression during 
acclimatization to aquarium conditions which indicate change in bacterial 
community activity. This approach holds potential for the discovery of new 
host-symbiont associations, evidencing new functional transcripts and a clearer 
picture of methane metabolism during loss of endosymbionts. Towards the end of 
acclimatization, we observed trends in three major functional subsystems, as 
evidenced by an increment of transcripts related to genetic information 
processes; the decrease of chaperone and folding catalysts and oxidative 
phosphorylation transcripts; but no change in transcripts of gluconeogenesis and 
co-factors-vitamins.

DOI: 10.3934/microbiol.2018.2.240
PMCID: PMC6604929
PMID: 31294213

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: All authors declare no 
conflicts of interest in this paper.


72. Front Microbiol. 2018 Sep 19;9:2208. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02208. eCollection 
2018.

Characterizing the Human Mycobiota: A Comparison of Small Subunit rRNA, ITS1, 
ITS2, and Large Subunit rRNA Genomic Targets.

Hoggard M(1), Vesty A(2)(3), Wong G(1), Montgomery JM(4), Fourie C(4), Douglas 
RG(2), Biswas K(2), Taylor MW(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New 
Zealand.
(2)School of Medicine, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Microbiology Laboratory, LabPLUS, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New 
Zealand.
(4)Department of Physiology, Centre for Brain Research, The University of 
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(5)Maurice Wilkins Centre for Molecular Biodiscovery, The University of 
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

Interest in the human microbiome has increased dramatically in the last decade. 
However, much of this research has focused on bacteria, while the composition 
and roles of their fungal counterparts remain less understood. Furthermore, a 
variety of methodological approaches have been applied, and the comparability 
between studies is unclear. This study compared four primer pairs targeting the 
small subunit (SSU) rRNA (18S), ITS1, ITS2, and large subunit (LSU) rRNA (26S) 
genomic regions for their ability to accurately characterize fungal communities 
typical of the human mycobiota. All four target regions of 21 individual fungal 
mock community taxa were capable of being amplified adequately and sequenced. 
Mixed mock community analyses revealed marked variability in the ability of each 
primer pair to accurately characterize a complex community. ITS target regions 
outperformed LSU and SSU. Of the ITS regions, ITS1 failed to generate sequences 
for Yarrowia lipolytica and all three Malassezia species when in a mixed 
community. These findings were further supported in studies of human sinonasal 
and mouse fecal samples. Based on these analyses, previous studies using ITS1, 
SSU, or LSU markers may omit key taxa that are identified by the ITS2 marker. Of 
methods commonly used in human mycobiota studies to date, we recommend selection 
of the ITS2 marker. Further investigation of more recently developed fungal 
primer options will be essential to ultimately determine the optimal 
methodological approach by which future human mycobiota studies ought to be 
standardized.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2018.02208
PMCID: PMC6157398
PMID: 30283425


73. Microbiome. 2019 Jul 3;7(1):99. doi: 10.1186/s40168-019-0715-5.

Active eukaryotes in drinking water distribution systems of ground and surface 
waterworks.

Inkinen J(1)(2), Jayaprakash B(3), Siponen S(3)(4), Hokajärvi AM(3), Pursiainen 
A(3), Ikonen J(3), Ryzhikov I(4), Täubel M(3), Kauppinen A(3), Paananen J(5), 
Miettinen IT(3), Torvinen E(4), Kolehmainen M(4), Pitkänen T(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Security, National Institute for Health and Welfare, 
P.O. Box 95, FI-70701, Kuopio, Finland. jenni.inkinen@thl.fi.
(2)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, P.O. Box 1627, 
FI-70211, Kuopio, Finland. jenni.inkinen@thl.fi.
(3)Department of Health Security, National Institute for Health and Welfare, 
P.O. Box 95, FI-70701, Kuopio, Finland.
(4)Department of Environmental and Biological Sciences, University of Eastern 
Finland, P.O. Box, 1627, FI-70211, Kuopio, Finland.
(5)Institute of Biomedicine, University of Eastern Finland, P.O. Box 1627, 
FI-70211, Kuopio, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Eukaryotes are ubiquitous in natural environments such as soil and 
freshwater. Little is known of their presence in drinking water distribution 
systems (DWDSs) or of the environmental conditions that affect their activity 
and survival.
METHODS: Eukaryotes were characterized by Illumina high-throughput sequencing 
targeting 18S rRNA gene (DNA) that estimates the total community and the 18S 
rRNA gene transcript (RNA) that is more representative of the active part of the 
community. DWDS cold water (N = 124), hot water (N = 40), and biofilm (N = 16) 
samples were collected from four cities in Finland. The sampled DWDSs were from 
two waterworks A-B with non-disinfected, recharged groundwater as source water 
and from three waterworks utilizing chlorinated water (two DWDSs of surface 
waterworks C-D and one of ground waterworks E). In each DWDS, samples were 
collected from three locations during four seasons of 1 year.
RESULTS: A beta-diversity analysis revealed that the main driver shaping the 
eukaryotic communities was the DWDS (A-E) (R = 0.73, P < 0.001, ANOSIM). The 
kingdoms Chloroplastida (green plants and algae), Metazoa (animals: rotifers, 
nematodes), Fungi (e.g., Cryptomycota), Alveolata (ciliates, dinoflagellates), 
and Stramenopiles (algae Ochrophyta) were well represented and active-judging 
based on the rRNA gene transcripts-depending on the surrounding conditions. The 
unchlorinated cold water of systems (A-B) contained a higher estimated total 
number of taxa (Chao1, average 380-480) than chlorinated cold water in systems 
C-E (Chao1 ≤ 210). Within each DWDS, unique eukaryotic communities were 
identified at different locations as was the case also for cold water, hot 
water, and biofilms. A season did not have a consistent impact on the eukaryotic 
community among DWDSs.
CONCLUSIONS: This study comprehensively characterized the eukaryotic community 
members within the DWDS of well-maintained ground and surface waterworks 
providing good quality water. The study gives an indication that each DWDS 
houses a unique eukaryotic community, mainly dependent on the raw water source 
and water treatment processes in place at the corresponding waterworks. In 
particular, disinfection as well as hot water temperature seemed to represent a 
strong selection pressure that controlled the number of active eukaryotic 
species.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-019-0715-5
PMCID: PMC6610866
PMID: 31269979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


74. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 16;14(8):e0221091. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221091. 
eCollection 2019.

Species composition of arbuscular mycorrhizal communities changes with elevation 
in the Andes of South Ecuador.

Haug I(1), Setaro S(2), Suárez JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Evolutionary Ecology of Plants, Eberhard-Karls-University, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Biology, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
United States of America.
(3)Departamento de Ciencias Biológicas, Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, 
Loja, Ecuador.

Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) are the most prominent mycobionts of plants 
in the tropics, yet little is known about their diversity, species compositions 
and factors driving AMF distribution patterns. To investigate whether elevation 
and associated vegetation type affect species composition, we sampled 646 
mycorrhizal samples in locations between 1000 and 4000 m above sea level (masl) 
in the South of Ecuador. We estimated diversity, distribution and species 
compositions of AMF by cloning and Sanger sequencing the 18S rDNA (the section 
between AML1 and AML2) and subsequent derivation of fungal OTUs based on 99% 
sequence similarity. In addition, we analyzed the phylogenetic structure of the 
sites by computing the mean pairwise distance (MPD) and the mean nearest taxon 
difference (MNTD) for each elevation level. It revealed that AMF species 
compositions at 1000 and 2000 masl differ from 3000 and 4000 masl. Lower 
elevations (1000 and 2000 masl) were dominated by members of Glomeraceae, 
whereas Acaulosporaceae were more abundant in higher elevations (3000 and 4000 
masl). Ordination of OTUs with respect to study sites revealed a correlation to 
elevation with a continuous turnover of species from lower to higher elevations. 
Most of the abundant OTUs are not endemic to South Ecuador. We also found a high 
proportion of rare OTUs at all elevations: 79-85% of OTUs occurred in less than 
5% of the samples. Phylogenetic community analysis indicated clustering and 
evenness for most elevation levels indicating that both, stochastic processes 
and habitat filtering are driving factors of AMF community compositions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221091
PMCID: PMC6697372
PMID: 31419262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


75. Microb Ecol. 2019 Jan;77(1):56-75. doi: 10.1007/s00248-018-1209-x. Epub 2018 May 
30.

Rapid Microbial Community Changes During Initial Stages of Pine Litter 
Decomposition.

Gołębiewski M(1)(2), Tarasek A(3), Sikora M(4), Deja-Sikora E(4)(5), Tretyn 
A(6)(4), Niklińska M(3).

Author information:
(1)Nicolaus Copernicus University, Lwowska 1, 87-100, Toruń, Poland. 
mgoleb@biol.umk.pl.
(2)Centre for Modern Interdisciplinary Technologies, Nicolaus Copernicus 
University, Toruń, Poland. mgoleb@biol.umk.pl.
(3)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland.
(4)Centre for Modern Interdisciplinary Technologies, Nicolaus Copernicus 
University, Toruń, Poland.
(5)Department of Microbiology, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Toruń, Poland.
(6)Nicolaus Copernicus University, Lwowska 1, 87-100, Toruń, Poland.

Plant litter decomposition is a process enabling biogeochemical cycles closing 
in ecosystems, and decomposition in forests constitutes the largest part of this 
process taking place in terrestrial biomes. Microbial communities during litter 
decomposition were studied mainly with low-throughput techniques not allowing 
detailed insight, particularly into coniferous litter, as it is more difficult 
to obtain high quality DNA required for analyses. Motivated by these problems, 
we analyzed archaeal, bacterial, and eukaryotic communities at three 
decomposition stages: fresh, 3- and 8-month-old litter by 16/18S rDNA 
pyrosequencing, aiming at detailed insight into early stages of pine litter 
decomposition. Archaea were absent from our libraries. Bacterial and eukaryotic 
diversity was greatest in 8-month-old litter and the same applied to bacterial 
and fungal rDNA content. Community structure was different at various stages of 
decomposition, and phyllospheric organisms (bacteria: Acetobacteraceae and 
Pseudomonadaceae members, fungi: Lophodermium, Phoma) were replaced by 
communities with metabolic capabilities adapted to the particular stage of 
decomposition. Sphingomonadaceae and Xanthomonadaceae and fungal genera 
Sistotrema, Ceuthospora, and Athelia were characteristic for 3-month-old 
samples, while 8-month-old ones were characterized by Bradyrhizobiaceae and 
nematodes (Plectus). We suggest that bacterial and eukaryotic decomposer 
communities change at different stages of pine litter decomposition in a way 
similar to that in broadleaf litter. Interactions between bacteria and 
eukaryotes appear to be one of the key drivers of microbial community structure.

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-018-1209-x
PMCID: PMC6318262
PMID: 29850933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Genes (Basel). 2018 Feb 16;9(2):104. doi: 10.3390/genes9020104.

Microbiome Data Accurately Predicts the Postmortem Interval Using Random Forest 
Regression Models.

Belk A(1), Xu ZZ(2), Carter DO(3), Lynne A(4), Bucheli S(5), Knight R(6)(7)(8), 
Metcalf JL(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 
80525, USA. aeriel.belk@colostate.edu.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, La Jolla, San Diego, CA 
92093, USA. zhx054@ucsd.edu.
(3)Laboratory of Forensic Taphonomy, Forensic Sciences Unit, Division of Natural 
Sciences and Mathematics, Chaminade University of Honolulu, Honolulu, HI 96816, 
USA. david.carter@chaminade.edu.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, 
TX 77340, USA. aml027@shsu.edu.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, Sam Houston State University, Huntsville, 
TX 77340, USA. srb009@shsu.edu.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, La Jolla, San Diego, CA 
92093, USA. robknight@ucsd.edu.
(7)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California, San 
Diego, CA 92037, USA. robknight@ucsd.edu.
(8)Microbiome Innovation Center, University of California, San Diego, CA 92037, 
USA. robknight@ucsd.edu.
(9)Department of Animal Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 
80525, USA. jessica.metcalf@colostate.edu.

Death investigations often include an effort to establish the postmortem 
interval (PMI) in cases in which the time of death is uncertain. The postmortem 
interval can lead to the identification of the deceased and the validation of 
witness statements and suspect alibis. Recent research has demonstrated that 
microbes provide an accurate clock that starts at death and relies on ecological 
change in the microbial communities that normally inhabit a body and its 
surrounding environment. Here, we explore how to build the most robust Random 
Forest regression models for prediction of PMI by testing models built on 
different sample types (gravesoil, skin of the torso, skin of the head), gene 
markers (16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA), 18S rRNA, internal transcribed spacer regions 
(ITS)), and taxonomic levels (sequence variants, species, genus, etc.). We also 
tested whether particular suites of indicator microbes were informative across 
different datasets. Generally, results indicate that the most accurate models 
for predicting PMI were built using gravesoil and skin data using the 16S rRNA 
genetic marker at the taxonomic level of phyla. Additionally, several phyla 
consistently contributed highly to model accuracy and may be candidate 
indicators of PMI.

DOI: 10.3390/genes9020104
PMCID: PMC5852600
PMID: 29462950

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


77. ISME J. 2018 May 1;12(11):2582-2595. doi: 10.1038/s41396-018-0163-4.

Linking patterns of net community production and marine microbial community 
structure in the western North Atlantic.

Wang S(1), Lin Y(1)(2), Gifford S(3), Eveleth R(1)(4), Cassar N(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Earth and Ocean Sciences, Duke University, Durham, USA.
(2)Laboratoire des Sciences de l'Environnement Marin (LEMAR), UMR 6539 
UBO/CNRS/IRD/IFREMER, Institut Universitaire Européen de la Mer (IUEM), Brest, 
France.
(3)Department of Marine Sciences, the University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, USA.
(4)Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Virginia, Virginia, USA.
(5)Division of Earth and Ocean Sciences, Duke University, Durham, USA. 
nicolas.cassar@duke.edu.
(6)Laboratoire des Sciences de l'Environnement Marin (LEMAR), UMR 6539 
UBO/CNRS/IRD/IFREMER, Institut Universitaire Européen de la Mer (IUEM), Brest, 
France. nicolas.cassar@duke.edu.

Marine net community production (NCP) tracks uptake of carbon by plankton 
communities and its potential transport to depth. Relationships between marine 
microbial community composition and NCP currently remain unclear despite their 
importance for assessing how different taxa impact carbon export. We conducted 
16 and 18S rRNA gene (rDNA) sequencing on samples collected across the Western 
North Atlantic in parallel with high-resolution O2/Ar-derived NCP measurements. 
Using an internal standard technique to estimate in-situ prokaryotic and 
eukaryotic rDNA abundances per liter, we employed statistical approaches to 
relate patterns of microbial diversity to NCP. Taxonomic abundances calculated 
using internal standards provided valuable context to traditional relative 
abundance metrics. A bloom in the Mid-Atlantic Bight featured high eukaryote 
abundances with low eukaryotic diversity and was associated with the harmful 
algal bloom-forming Aureococcus anophagefferens, phagotrophic algae, 
heterotrophic flagellates, and particle-associated bacteria. These results show 
that coastal Aureococcus blooms host a distinct community associated with 
regionally significant peaks in NCP. Meanwhile, weak relationships between 
taxonomy and NCP in less-productive waters suggest that productivity across much 
of this region is not linked to specific microplankton taxa.

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-018-0163-4
PMCID: PMC6193967
PMID: 29934639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


78. Sci Rep. 2016 Mar 29;6:23680. doi: 10.1038/srep23680.

Plant and soil fungal but not soil bacterial communities are linked in long-term 
fertilized grassland.

Cassman NA(1)(2), Leite MF(1)(3), Pan Y(1), de Hollander M(1), van Veen 
JA(1)(2), Kuramae EE(1).

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Institute of Ecology NIOO-KNAW, Department of Microbial Ecology, 
Wageningen, 6708 PB, Netherlands.
(2)Leiden University, Department of Biology, Leiden, 2311 EZ, Netherlands.
(3)Maranhão State University, Department of Agroecology, São Luís Maranhão, 
65055-000, Brazil.

Inorganic fertilization and mowing alter soil factors with subsequent 
effects-direct and indirect - on above- and below-ground communities. We 
explored direct and indirect effects of long-term fertilization (N, P, NPK, 
Liming) and twice yearly mowing on the plant, bacterial and fungal communities 
and soil factors. We analyzed co-variation using 16S and 18S rRNA genes surveys, 
and plant frequency and edaphic factors across treatments. The plant and fungal 
communities were distinct in the NPK and L treatments, while the bacterial 
communities and soil factors were distinct in the N and L treatments. Plant 
community diversity and evenness had low diversity in the NPK and high diversity 
in the liming treatment, while the diversity and evenness of the bacterial and 
fungal communities did not differ across treatments, except of higher diversity 
and evenness in the liming treatment for the bacteria. We found significant 
co-structures between communities based on plant and fungal comparisons but not 
between plant and bacterial nor bacterial and fungal comparisons. Our results 
suggested that the plant and fungal communities are more tightly linked than 
either community with the bacterial community in fertilized soils. We found 
co-varying plant, bacterial and fungal taxa in different treatments that may 
indicate ecological interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/srep23680
PMCID: PMC4810522
PMID: 27020916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Front Microbiol. 2019 Feb 12;10:240. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.00240. eCollection 
2019.

Changes in Trophic Groups of Protists With Conversion of Rainforest Into Rubber 
and Oil Palm Plantations.

Schulz G(1), Schneider D(2), Brinkmann N(3), Edy N(3)(4), Daniel R(2), Polle 
A(3)(5), Scheu S(1)(5), Krashevska V(1).

Author information:
(1)Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute for Zoology and Anthropology, 
University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Genomic and Applied Microbiology and Göttingen Genomics 
Laboratory, University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Department of Forest Botany and Tree Physiology, University of Göttingen, 
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Department of Agrotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, Tadulako University, 
Palu, Indonesia.
(5)Centre of Biodiversity and Sustainable Land Use, University of Göttingen, 
Göttingen, Germany.

Protists, abundant but enigmatic single-celled eukaryotes, are important soil 
microbiota providing numerous ecosystem functions. We employed high-throughput 
sequencing of environmental DNA, targeting the V4 region of the 18S rRNA gene, 
to characterize changes in their abundance, species richness, and community 
structure with conversion of lowland rainforest into rubber agroforest (jungle 
rubber), and rubber and oil palm plantations; typical agricultural systems in 
Sumatra, Indonesia. We identified 5,204 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) at 
97% identity threshold of protists from 32 sites. Protists species richness was 
similar in rainforest, jungle rubber and oil palm plantations but significantly 
lower in rubber plantations. After standardization, 4,219 OTUs were assigned to 
five trophic groups, and inspected for effects of land-use change, and potential 
biotic and abiotic driving factors. The most abundant trophic group was 
phagotrophs (52%), followed by animal parasites (29%), photoautotrophs (12%), 
plant parasites (1%), and symbionts (<1%). However, the relative abundance and 
OTU richness of phagotrophs and photoautotrophs increased significantly with 
increasing land-use intensity. This was similar, but less pronounced, for the 
relative abundance of symbionts. Animal and plant parasites decreased 
significantly in abundance and species richness with increasing land-use 
intensity. Community compositions and factors affecting the structure of 
individual trophic groups differed between land-use systems. Parasites were 
presumably mainly driven by the abundance and species richness of their hosts, 
while phagotrophs by changes in soil pH and increase in Gram-positive bacteria, 
and photoautotrophs by light availability. Overall, the results show that 
relative species richness, relative abundance, and community composition of 
individual trophic groups of protists in tropical lowland rainforest 
significantly differ from that in converted ecosystems. This is likely 
associated with changes in ecosystem functioning. The study provides novel 
insight into protist communities and their changes with land-use intensity in 
tropical lowland ecosystems. We show, that trophic groups of protists are 
powerful indicators reflecting changes in the functioning of ecosystems with 
conversion of rainforest into monoculture plantations.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.00240
PMCID: PMC6380168
PMID: 30809219


80. Environ Int. 2019 May;126:268-278. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2019.02.050. Epub 2019 
Feb 27.

Evaluation of the taxonomic and functional variation of freshwater plankton 
communities induced by trace amounts of the antibiotic ciprofloxacin.

Lu T(1), Zhu Y(1), Ke M(1), Peijnenburg WJGM(2), Zhang M(1), Wang T(3), Chen 
J(4), Qian H(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Environment, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 310032, 
China.
(2)Institute of Environmental Sciences (CML), Leiden University, RA, Leiden 
2300, the Netherlands; National Institute of Public Health and the Environment 
(RIVM), Center for Safety of Substances and Products, P.O. Box 1, Bilthoven, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Key laboratory of microbial technology and bioinformatics of Zhejiang 
Province, Hangzhou 310012, China.
(4)College of Biological and Environmental Engineering, Zhejiang Shuren 
University, Hangzhou 310021, China.
(5)College of Environment, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou 310032, 
China. Electronic address: hfqian@zjut.edu.cn.

Ciprofloxacin (CIP), one of the most frequently detected antibiotics in water 
systems, has become an aquatic contaminant because of improper disposal and 
excretion by humans and animals. It is still unknown how trace amounts of CIP 
affect the aquatic microbial community diversity and function. We therefore 
investigated the effects of CIP on the structure and function of freshwater 
microbial communities via 16S/18S rRNA gene sequencing and metatranscriptomic 
analyses. CIP treatment (7 μg/L) did not significantly alter the physical and 
chemical condition of the water body as well as the composition of the main 
species in the community, but slightly increased the relative abundance of 
cyanobacteria and decreased the relative abundance of eukaryotes. 
Metatranscriptomic results showed that bacteria enhanced their phosphorus 
transport and photosynthesis after CIP exposure. The replication, transcription, 
translation and cell proliferation were all suppressed in eukaryotes, while the 
bacteria were not affected in any of these aspects. This interesting phenomenon 
was the exact opposite to both the antibacterial property of CIP and its safety 
for eukaryotes. We hypothesize that reciprocal and antagonistic interactions in 
the microcosm both contribute to this result: cyanobacteria may enhance their 
tolerance to CIP through benefiting from cross-feeding and some secreted 
substances that withstand bacterial CIP stress would also affect eukaryotic 
growth. The present study thus indicates that a detailed assessment of the 
aquatic ecotoxicity of CIP is essential, as the effects of CIP are much more 
complicated in microbial communities than in monocultures. CIP will continue to 
be an environmental contaminant due to its wide usage and production and more 
attention should be given to the negative effects of antibiotics as well as 
other bioactive pollutants on aquatic environments.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2019.02.050
PMID: 30825745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Microbiol Res. 2018 Mar;208:32-42. doi: 10.1016/j.micres.2018.01.004. Epub 2018 
Jan 31.

Microbial communities and their potential for degradation of dissolved organic 
carbon in cryoconite hole environments of Himalaya and Antarctica.

Sanyal A(1), Antony R(2), Samui G(1), Thamban M(1).

Author information:
(1)ESSO-National centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research, Headland Sada, 
Vasco-Da-Gama, Goa 403804, India.
(2)ESSO-National centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research, Headland Sada, 
Vasco-Da-Gama, Goa 403804, India. Electronic address: runa@ncaor.gov.in.

Cryoconite holes (cylindrical melt-holes on the glacier surface) are important 
hydrological and biological systems within glacial environments that support 
diverse microbial communities and biogeochemical processes. This study describes 
retrievable heterotrophic microbes in cryoconite hole water from three 
geographically distinct sites in Antarctica, and a Himalayan glacier, along with 
their potential to degrade organic compounds found in these environments. 
Microcosm experiments (22 days) show that 13-60% of the dissolved organic carbon 
in the water within cryoconite holes is bio-available to resident microbes. 
Biodegradation tests of organic compounds such as lactate, acetate, formate, 
propionate and oxalate that are present in cryoconite hole water show that 
microbes have good potential to metabolize the compounds tested. Substrate 
utilization tests on Biolog Ecoplate show that microbial communities in the 
Himalayan samples are able to oxidize a diverse array of organic substrates 
including carbohydrates, carboxylic acids, amino acids, amines/amides and 
polymers, while Antarctic communities generally utilized complex polymers. In 
addition, as determined by the extracellular enzyme activities, majority of the 
microbes (82%, total of 355) isolated in this study (Proteobacteria, 
Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Basidiomycota) had ability to 
degrade a variety of compounds such as proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, 
cellulose and lignin that are documented to be present within cryoconite holes. 
Thus, microbial communities have good potential to metabolize organic compounds 
found in the cryoconite hole environment, thereby influencing the water 
chemistry in these holes. Moreover, microbes exported downstream during melting 
and flushing of cryoconite holes may participate in carbon cycling processes in 
recipient ecosystems.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micres.2018.01.004
PMID: 29551210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Microbiome. 2016 Jul 19;4(1):20. doi: 10.1186/s40168-016-0166-1.

A comprehensive method for amplicon-based and metagenomic characterization of 
viruses, bacteria, and eukaryotes in freshwater samples.

Uyaguari-Diaz MI(1)(2), Chan M(1), Chaban BL(3), Croxen MA(1), Finke 
JF(4)(5)(6), Hill JE(7), Peabody MA(8), Van Rossum T(8), Suttle CA(4)(5)(6)(9), 
Brinkman FS(8), Isaac-Renton J(1)(2), Prystajecky NA(1)(2), Tang P(10).

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Public Health Laboratory, British Columbia Centre for 
Disease Control, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 4R4, Canada.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(3)South Kensington Campus, Imperial College London, Sir Ernst Chain Building, 
London, SW7 2AZ, UK.
(4)Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(6)Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, 
Canada.
(7)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Western College of Veterinary 
Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 5B4, Canada.
(8)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, South Science Building, 
Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, V5A 1S6, Canada.
(9)Integrated Microbial Biodiversity Program, Canadian Institute for Advanced 
Research, Toronto, ON, M5G 1Z8, Canada.
(10)Department of Pathology, Sidra Medical and Research Center, PO Box 26999, 
Doha, Qatar. ptang@sidra.org.

BACKGROUND: Studies of environmental microbiota typically target only specific 
groups of microorganisms, with most focusing on bacteria through taxonomic 
classification of 16S rRNA gene sequences. For a more holistic understanding of 
a microbiome, a strategy to characterize the viral, bacterial, and eukaryotic 
components is necessary.
RESULTS: We developed a method for metagenomic and amplicon-based analysis of 
freshwater samples involving the concentration and size-based separation of 
eukaryotic, bacterial, and viral fractions. Next-generation sequencing and 
culture-independent approaches were used to describe and quantify microbial 
communities in watersheds with different land use in British Columbia. Deep 
amplicon sequencing was used to investigate the distribution of certain viruses 
(g23 and RdRp), bacteria (16S rRNA and cpn60), and eukaryotes (18S rRNA and 
ITS). Metagenomic sequencing was used to further characterize the gene content 
of the bacterial and viral fractions at both taxonomic and functional levels.
CONCLUSION: This study provides a systematic approach to separate and 
characterize eukaryotic-, bacterial-, and viral-sized particles. Methodologies 
described in this research have been applied in temporal and spatial studies to 
study the impact of land use on watershed microbiomes in British Columbia.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-016-0166-1
PMCID: PMC5011856
PMID: 27391119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Environ Microbiol Rep. 2019 Jun;11(3):464-473. doi: 10.1111/1758-2229.12756. 
Epub 2019 Apr 26.

Microbial eukaryotes in the suboxic chemosynthetic ecosystem of Movile Cave, 
Romania.

Reboul G(1), Moreira D(1), Bertolino P(1), Hillebrand-Voiculescu AM(2)(3), 
López-García P(1).

Author information:
(1)Unité d'Ecologie; Systématique et Evolution, CNRS, Université Paris-Sud, 
Université Paris-Saclay, AgroParisTech, bâtiment 360, 91400 Orsay, France.
(2)Department of Biospeleology and Karst Edaphobiology, Emil Racovita Institute 
of Speleology, Bucharest, Romania.
(3)Group for Underwater and Speleological Exploration, Bucharest, Romania.

Movile Cave is a small system of partially inundated galleries in limestone 
settings close to the Black Sea in Southeast Romania. Isolated from the surface 
for 6 million years, its sulfidic, methane and ammonia-rich waters harbour 
unique chemosynthetic prokaryotic communities that include sulphur and 
ammonium-metabolizing chemolithotrophs, methanogens, methanotrophs and 
methylotrophs. The cave also harbours cave-dwelling invertebrates and fungi, but 
the diversity of other microbial eukaryotes remained completely unknown. Here, 
we apply an 18S rRNA gene-based metabarcoding approach to study the composition 
of protist communities in floating microbial mats and plankton from a 
well-preserved oxygen-depleted cave chamber. Our results reveal a wide protist 
diversity with, as dominant groups, ciliates (Alveolata), Stramenopiles, 
especially bicosoecids, and jakobids (Excavata). Ciliate sequences dominated 
both, microbial mats and plankton, followed by either Stramenopiles or 
excavates. Stramenopiles were more prominent in microbial mats, whereas jakobids 
dominated the plankton fraction of the oxygen-depleted water column. Mats 
cultured in the laboratory were enriched in Cercozoa. Consistent with local low 
oxygen levels, Movile Cave protists are most likely anaerobic or 
microaerophilic. Several newly detected OTU clades were very divergent from 
cultured species or environmental sequences in databases and represent 
phylogenetic novelty, notably within jakobids. Movile Cave protists likely cover 
a variety of ecological roles in this ecosystem including predation, parasitism, 
saprotrophy and possibly diverse prokaryote-protist syntrophies.

© 2019 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1758-2229.12756
PMCID: PMC6697535
PMID: 30969022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


84. Transl Res. 2017 Aug;186:79-94.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.06.008. Epub 2017 
Jun 20.

Integrated meta-omic analyses of the gastrointestinal tract microbiome in 
patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Kaysen A(1), Heintz-Buschart A(1), Muller EEL(2), Narayanasamy S(1), Wampach 
L(1), Laczny CC(3), Graf N(4), Simon A(4), Franke K(5), Bittenbring J(5), Wilmes 
P(6), Schneider JG(7).

Author information:
(1)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg.
(2)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg; Saarland University Medical Center, Klinik für Innere Medizin I, 
Homburg, Germany.
(3)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg; Saarland University Medical Center, Klinik für Pädiatrische 
Onkologie und Hämatologie, Homburg, Germany.
(4)Saarland University Medical Center, Klinik für Pädiatrische Onkologie und 
Hämatologie, Homburg, Germany.
(5)Saarland University Medical Center, Klinik für Innere Medizin I, Homburg, 
Germany.
(6)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg. Electronic address: paul.wilmes@uni.lu.
(7)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, Belvaux, 
Luxembourg; Saarland University Medical Center, Klinik für Innere Medizin II, 
Homburg, Germany. Electronic address: jg.schneider@outlook.com.

In patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 
(allo-HSCT), treatment-induced changes to the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) 
microbiome have been linked to adverse outcomes, most notably graft-versus-host 
disease (GvHD). However, it is presently unknown whether this relationship is 
causal or consequential. Here, we performed an integrated meta-omic analysis to 
probe deeper into the GIT microbiome changes during allo-HSCT and its 
accompanying treatments. We used 16S and 18S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing to 
resolve archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotes within the GIT microbiomes of 16 
patients undergoing allo-HSCT for the treatment of hematologic malignancies. 
These results revealed a major shift in the GIT microbiome after allo-HSCT 
including a marked reduction in bacterial diversity, accompanied by only limited 
changes in eukaryotes and archaea. An integrated analysis of metagenomic and 
metatranscriptomic data was performed on samples collected from a patient before 
and after allo-HSCT for acute myeloid leukemia. This patient developed severe 
GvHD, leading to death 9 months after allo-HSCT. In addition to drastically 
decreased bacterial diversity, the post-treatment microbiome showed a higher 
overall number and higher expression levels of antibiotic resistance genes 
(ARGs). One specific Escherichia coli strain causing a paravertebral abscess was 
linked to GIT dysbiosis, suggesting loss of intestinal barrier integrity. The 
apparent selection for bacteria expressing ARGs suggests that prophylactic 
antibiotic administration may adversely affect the overall treatment outcome. We 
therefore assert that such analyses including information about the selection of 
pathogenic bacteria expressing ARGs may assist clinicians in "personalizing" 
regimens for individual patients to improve overall outcomes.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trsl.2017.06.008
PMID: 28686852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Apr;39(8):751-66. doi: 10.1111/apt.12665. Epub 2014 
Feb 24.

Review article: fungal microbiota and digestive diseases.

Wang ZK(1), Yang YS, Stefka AT, Sun G, Peng LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Chinese PLA General Hospital, 
Chinese PLA Medical Academy, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: The role of the fungal microbiota in digestive diseases is poorly 
defined, but is becoming better understood due to advances in metagenomics.
AIM: To review the gastrointestinal fungal microbiota and its relationship with 
digestive diseases.
METHODS: Search of the literature using PubMed and MEDLINE databases. Subject 
headings including 'fungal-bacterial interactions', 'mycotoxins', 'immunity to 
fungi', 'fungal infection', 'fungal microbiota', 'mycobiome' and 'digestive 
diseases' were used.
RESULTS: The fungal microbiota is an integral part of the gastrointestinal 
microecosystem with up to 10(6) microorganisms per gram of faeces. 
Next-generation sequencing of the fungal 18S rRNA gene has allowed better 
characterisation of the gastrointestinal mycobiome. Numerous interactions 
between fungi and bacteria and the complex immune response to gastrointestinal 
commensal or pathogenic fungi all impact on the pathophysiology of inflammatory 
bowel disease and other gastrointestinal inflammatory entities such as peptic 
ulcers. Mycotoxins generated as fungal metabolites contribute to disturbances of 
gastrointestinal barrier and immune functions and are associated with chronic 
intestinal inflammatory conditions as well as hepatocellular and 
oesophagogastric cancer. Systemic and gastrointestinal disease can also lead to 
secondary fungal infections. Fungal genomic databases and methodologies need to 
be further developed and will allow a much better understanding of the diversity 
and function of the mycobiome in gastrointestinal inflammation, tumourigenesis, 
liver cirrhosis and transplantation, and its alteration as a consequence of 
antibiotic therapy and chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The fungal microbiota and its metabolites impact gastrointestinal 
function and contribute to the pathogenesis of digestive diseases. Further 
metagenomic analyses of the gastrointestinal mycobiome in health and disease is 
needed.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12665
PMID: 24612332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. PeerJ. 2018 Jan 22;6:e4282. doi: 10.7717/peerj.4282. eCollection 2018.

Eukaryotes in the gut microbiota in myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue 
syndrome.

Mandarano AH(1), Giloteaux L(1), Keller BA(2), Levine SM(1), Hanson MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology & Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 
United States of America.
(2)Department of Exercise & Sport Sciences, Ithaca College, Ithaca, NY, United 
States of America.

Patients with myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) often 
suffer from gastrointestinal symptoms and many are diagnosed with irritable 
bowel syndrome (IBS). Previous studies, including from our laboratory, have 
demonstrated that the ME/CFS gut bacterial composition is altered and less 
diverse when compared to healthy individuals. Patients have increased biomarkers 
of inflammation and leaky gut syndrome. To further investigate dysbiosis in the 
ME/CFS gut microbiome, we sought to characterize the eukaryotes present in the 
gut of 49 individuals with ME/CFS and 39 healthy controls. Using 18S rRNA 
sequencing, we have identified eukaryotes in stool samples of 17 healthy 
individuals and 17 ME/CFS patients. Our analysis demonstrates a small, 
nonsignificant decrease in eukaryotic diversity in ME/CFS patients compared to 
healthy individuals. In addition, ME/CFS patients show a nonsignificant increase 
in the ratio of fungal phyla Basidiomycota to Ascomycota, which is consistent 
with ongoing inflammation in ME/CFS. We did not identify specific eukaryotic 
taxa that are associated with ME/CFS disease status.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.4282
PMCID: PMC5784577
PMID: 29375937

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


87. Microbiologyopen. 2017 Apr;6(2):e00428. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.428. Epub 2016 Nov 21.

Polymetallic nodules, sediments, and deep waters in the equatorial North Pacific 
exhibit highly diverse and distinct bacterial, archaeal, and microeukaryotic 
communities.

Shulse CN(1), Maillot B(1), Smith CR(2), Church MJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Microbial Oceanography: Research and Education (C-MORE), 
University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI, USA.
(2)Department of Oceanography, School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology, 
University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu, HI, USA.

Concentrated seabed deposits of polymetallic nodules, which are rich in 
economically valuable metals (e.g., copper, nickel, cobalt, manganese), occur 
over vast areas of the abyssal Pacific Ocean floor. Little is currently known 
about the diversity of microorganisms inhabiting abyssal habitats. In this 
study, sediment, nodule, and water column samples were collected from the 
Clarion-Clipperton Zone of the Eastern North Pacific. The diversities of 
prokaryote and microeukaryote communities associated with these habitats were 
examined. Microbial community composition and diversity varied with habitat 
type, water column depth, and sediment horizon. Thaumarchaeota were relatively 
enriched in the sediments and nodules compared to the water column, whereas 
Gammaproteobacteria were the most abundant sequences associated with nodules. 
Among the Eukaryota, rRNA genes belonging to the Cryptomonadales were relatively 
most abundant among organisms associated with nodules, whereas rRNA gene 
sequences deriving from members of the Alveolata were relatively enriched in 
sediments and the water column. Nine operational taxonomic unit (OTU)s were 
identified that occur in all nodules in this dataset, as well as all nodules 
found in a study 3000-9000 km from our site. Microbial communities in the 
sediments had the highest diversity, followed by nodules, and then by the water 
column with <1/3 the number of OTUs as in the sediments.

© 2016 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.428
PMCID: PMC5387330
PMID: 27868387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Front Microbiol. 2019 May 16;10:1093. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01093. eCollection 
2019.

Fecal Microbial Communities in a Large Representative Cohort of California Dairy 
Cows.

Hagey JV(1), Bhatnagar S(2), Heguy JM(3), Karle BM(3), Price PL(1), Meyer D(1), 
Maga EA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA, 
United States.
(2)Geomicrobiology Group, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(3)Division of Agriculture and Natural Resources, University of California 
Cooperative Extension, Hayward, CA, United States.

Improved sequencing and analytical techniques allow for better resolution of 
microbial communities; however, the agriculture field lacks an updated analysis 
surveying the fecal microbial populations of dairy cattle in California. This 
study is a large-scale survey to determine the composition of the bacterial 
community present in the feces of lactating dairy cattle on commercial dairy 
operations. For the study, 10 dairy farms across northern and central California 
representing a variety of feeding and management systems were enrolled. The 
farms represented three typical housing types including five freestall, two 
drylot and three pasture-based management systems. Fresh feces were collected 
from 15 randomly selected cows on each farm and analyzed using 16S rRNA gene 
amplicon sequencing. This study found that housing type, individual farm, and 
dietary components significantly affected the alpha diversity of the fecal 
microbiota. While only one Operational Taxonomic Unit (OTU) was common among all 
the sampled individuals, 15 bacterial families and 27 genera were shared among 
95% of samples. The ratio of the families Coriobacteriaceae to 
Bifidobacteriaceae was significantly different between housing types and farms 
with pasture fed animals having a higher relative abundance of 
Coriobacteriaceae. A majority of samples were positive for at least one OTU 
assigned to Enterobacteriaceae and 31% of samples contained OTUs assigned to 
Campylobacter. However, the relative abundance of both taxa was <0.1%. The 
microbial composition displays individual farm specific signatures, but housing 
type plays a role. These data provide insights into the composition of the core 
fecal microbiota of commercial dairy cows in California and will further 
generate hypotheses for strategies to manipulate the microbiome of cattle.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2019.01093
PMCID: PMC6532609
PMID: 31156599


89. Front Plant Sci. 2018 Nov 16;9:1666. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2018.01666. eCollection 
2018.

Free-Living Nematodes Together With Associated Microbes Play an Essential Role 
in Apple Replant Disease.

Kanfra X(1), Liu B(2), Beerhues L(2), Sørensen SJ(3), Heuer H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Pathogen Diagnostics, Julius Kühn-Institut - 
Federal Research Centre for Cultivated Plants, Braunschweig, Germany.
(2)Institute of Pharmaceutical Biology, Technische Universität Braunschweig, 
Braunschweig, Germany.
(3)Section of Microbiology, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

Apple replant disease (ARD) is a severe problem in apple production worldwide. 
It is caused by a complex of soil biota, leading to small discolorated roots, as 
well as increased biosynthesis of phytoalexins, total phenolic compounds and 
antioxidants. We sampled soil from randomized field plots with either apple 
trees affected by ARD, which were five times replanted every second year, or 
with healthy trees growing in plots, which had a grass cover during this period. 
We investigated the contribution of nematodes to ARD by dissecting the soil 
biota from plots infested with ARD and non-infested control plots into a 
nematode and a microbe fraction. Nematode communities significantly differed 
between ARD and control soil as revealed by high-throughput sequencing of 18S 
rRNA genes. Plant-parasitic nematodes were too low in abundance to explain root 
damage, and did not significantly differ between ARD and control soil. Their 
separate and synergistic effect on ARD symptoms of susceptible M26 apple 
rootstocks was analyzed 4 and 8 weeks after inoculation in three greenhouse 
experiments. Inoculants were either nematodes from ARD plots (NARD), NARD plus 
microbes from ARD plots (MARD), NARD plus microbes from control plots (MCon), 
nematodes from control plots NCon plus MARD, NCon plus MCon, MARD, or MCon, or 
non-inoculated control. In all three experiments, the combination NARD plus MARD 
had the strongest adverse effect on the plants, with respect to growth 
parameters of shoots and roots, total phenolic compounds and phytoalexins in 
roots, and antioxidants in leaves. NARD also induced ARD but less than NARD plus 
MARD. NARD plus MCon had delayed effects on the plants compared to NARD plus 
MARD, suggesting that detrimental nematode-microbe interactions built up with 
time. Effects of MARD or NCon plus MARD were minor or not distinguishable from 
those of MCon or non-inoculated control. Overall, the source of the inoculated 
nematodes -ARD or control soil- and the interaction between ARD nematodes and 
microbes were highly significant factors determining ARD. In conclusion, 
exploring the associations of nematodes and microbes in ARD soils will give the 
chance to unravel the etiology of ARD.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2018.01666
PMCID: PMC6250840
PMID: 30505315


90. Front Microbiol. 2016 Feb 17;7:171. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.00171. eCollection 
2016.

Characterization of the Core and Caste-Specific Microbiota in the Termite, 
Reticulitermes flavipes.

Benjamino J(1), Graf J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Connecticut, Storrs 
CT, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of Connecticut, 
StorrsCT, USA; Institute for Systems Genomics, University of Connecticut, 
StorrsCT, USA.

The hindgut of the termite Reticulitermes flavipes harbors a complex symbiotic 
community consisting of protists, bacteria, and archaea. These symbionts aid in 
the digestion of lignocellulose from the termite's wood meal. Termite hindguts 
were sampled and the V4 hyper-variable region of the 16S rRNA gene was sequenced 
and analyzed from individual termites. The core microbiota of worker termites 
consisted of 69 OTUs at the 97% identity level, grouped into 16 taxa, and 
together accounted for 67.05% of the sequences from the bacterial community. The 
core was dominated by Treponema, which contained 36 different OTUs and accounted 
for ∼32% of the sequences, which suggests Treponema sp. have an important impact 
on the overall physiology in the hindgut. Bray-Curtis beta diversity metrics 
showed that hindgut samples from termites of the same colony were more similar 
to each other than to samples from other colonies despite possessing a core that 
accounted for the majority of the sequences. The specific tasks and dietary 
differences of the termite castes could have an effect on the composition of the 
microbial community. The hindgut microbiota of termites from the alate castes 
differed from the worker caste with significantly lower abundances of Treponema 
and Endomicrobia, which dominated the hindgut microbiota in workers and 
soldiers. Protist abundances were also quantified in the same samples using qPCR 
of the 18S rRNA gene. Parabasalia abundances dropped significantly in the winged 
alates and the Oxymonadida abundances dropped in both alate castes. These data 
suggest that the changes in diet or overall host physiology affected the protist 
and bacterial populations in the hindgut. The in-depth bacterial 
characterization and protist quantification in this study sheds light on the 
potential community dynamics within the R. flavipes hindgut and identified a 
large and complex core microbiota in termites obtained from multiple colonies 
and castes.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2016.00171
PMCID: PMC4756164
PMID: 26925043


91. Geobiology. 2017 Mar;15(2):280-295. doi: 10.1111/gbi.12219. Epub 2016 Dec 5.

Primary productivity of snow algae communities on stratovolcanoes of the Pacific 
Northwest.

Hamilton TL(1), Havig J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, 
USA.
(2)Department of Geology, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

The majority of geomicrobiological research conducted on glacial systems to date 
has focused on glaciers that override primarily carbonate or granitic bedrock 
types, with little known of the processes that support microbial life in glacial 
systems overriding volcanic terrains (e.g., basalt or andesite). To better 
constrain the role of the supraglacial ecosystems in the carbon and nitrogen 
cycles, to gain insight into microbiome composition and function in alpine 
glacial systems overriding volcanic terrains, and to constrain potential 
elemental sequestration or release through weathering processes associated with 
snow algae communities, we examined the microbial community structure and 
primary productivity of snow algae communities on stratovolcanoes in the Cascade 
Range of the Pacific Northwest. Here, we present the first published values for 
carbon fixation rates of snow algae communities on glaciers in the Pacific 
Northwest. We observed varying levels of light-dependent carbon fixation on 
supraglacial and periglacial snowfields at Mt. Hood, Mt. Adams, and North 
Sister. Recovery of abundant 18S rRNA transcripts affiliated with 
photoautotrophs and 16S rRNA transcripts affiliated with heterotrophic bacteria 
is consistent with previous studies indicating the majority of primary 
productivity on snow and ice can be attributed to photoautotrophs. In contrast 
to previous observations of glacial ecosystems, our geochemical, isotopic, and 
microcosm data suggest these assemblages are not limited by phosphorus or fixed 
nitrogen availability. Furthermore, our data indicate these snow algae 
communities actively sequester Fe, Mn, and P leached from minerals sourced from 
the local rocks. Our observations of light-dependent primary productivity on 
snow are consistent with similar studies in polar ecosystems; however, our data 
may suggest that DIC may be a limiting nutrient in contrast to phosphorus or 
fixed nitrogen as has been observed in other glacial ecosystems. Our data 
underscore the need for similar studies on glacier surfaces and seasonal 
snowfields to better constrain the role of local bedrock and nutrient delivery 
on carbon fixation and biogeochemical cycling in these ecosystems.

© 2016 The Authors. Geobiology Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/gbi.12219
PMCID: PMC5324535
PMID: 27917584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. PeerJ. 2019 Feb 18;7:e6392. doi: 10.7717/peerj.6392. eCollection 2019.

Diverse microbial communities hosted by the model carnivorous pitcher plant 
Sarracenia purpurea: analysis of both bacterial and eukaryotic composition 
across distinct host plant populations.

Grothjan JJ(1), Young EB(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 
Milwaukee, WI, United States of America.
(2)School of Freshwater Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Milwaukee, 
WI, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: The pitcher plant Sarracenia purpurea supplements nutrient 
acquisition through carnivory, capturing insect prey which are digested by a 
food web community of eukaryotes and bacteria. While the food web invertebrates 
are well studied, and some recent studies have characterized bacteria, detailed 
genetic analysis of eukaryotic diversity is lacking. This study aimed to compare 
eukaryotic and bacterial composition and diversity of pitcher communities within 
and between populations of host plants in nearby but distinct wetland habitats, 
and to characterize microbial functions across populations and in comparison 
with another freshwater community.
METHODS: Pitcher fluid was sampled from the two wetlands, Cedarburg and Sapa 
Bogs, community DNA was extracted, and 16S and 18S rRNA amplicons were sequenced 
and data processed for community-level comparisons.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Bacterial diversity in the small pitcher volume rivaled 
that of larger aquatic communities. Between pitcher plant populations, several 
bacterial families (Kiloniellaceae, Acetobacteraceae, Xanthobacteraceae, 
Sanguibacteraceae, Oligoflexaceae, Nitrosomonadaceae, Chromatiaceae, 
Saprospiraceae) were significantly higher in one population. However, although 
predicted pitcher bacterial functions were distinct from other freshwater 
communities, especially for some amino acid metabolism, functions were similar 
across all the pitchers in the two populations. This suggests some functional 
redundancy among bacterial taxa, and that functions converge to achieve similar 
food web processes. The sequencing identified a previously under-appreciated 
high diversity of ciliates, Acari mites, fungi and flagellates in pitcher 
communities; the most abundant sequences from eukaryotic taxa were 
Oligohymenophorea ciliates, millipedes and Ichthyosporea flagellates. Two thirds 
of taxa were identified as food web inhabitants and less than one third as prey 
organisms. Although eukaryotic composition was not significantly different 
between populations, there were different species of core taxonomic groups 
present in different pitchers-these differences may be driven by wetland 
habitats providing different populations to colonize new pitchers. Eukaryotic 
composition was more variable than bacterial composition, and there was a poor 
relationship between bacterial and eukaryotic composition within individual 
pitchers, suggesting that colonization by eukaryotes may be more stochastic than 
for bacteria, and bacterial recruitment to pitchers may involve factors other 
than prey capture and colonization by eukaryotic food web inhabitants.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.6392
PMCID: PMC6383556
PMID: 30805246

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


93. PLoS One. 2019 Aug 29;14(8):e0221770. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221770. 
eCollection 2019.

The Pacific harbor seal gut microbiota in Mexico: Its relationship with diet and 
functional inferences.

Pacheco-Sandoval A(1), Schramm Y(2), Heckel G(1), Brassea-Pérez E(1), 
Martínez-Porchas M(3), Lago-Lestón A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación Científica y de Educación Superior de Ensenada, 
Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico.
(2)Universidad Autónoma de Baja California, Ensenada, Baja California, Mexico.
(3)Centro de Investigación en Alimentación y Desarrollo, Hermosillo, Sonora, 
Mexico.

Diet is a primary driver of the composition of gut microbiota and is considered 
one of the main routes of microbial colonization. Prey identification is 
fundamental for correlating the diet with the presence of particular microbial 
groups. The present study examined how diet influenced the composition and 
function of the gut microbiota of the Pacific harbor seal (Phoca vitulina 
richardii) in order to better understand the role of prey consumption in shaping 
its microbiota. This species is a good indicator of the quality of the local 
environment due to both its foraging and haul-out site fidelity. DNA was 
extracted from 20 fecal samples collected from five harbor seal colonies located 
in Baja California, Mexico. The V4 region of 16S rRNA gene was amplified and 
sequenced using the Illumina technology. Results showed that the gut microbiota 
of the harbor seals was dominated by the phyla Firmicutes (37%), Bacteroidetes 
(26%) and Fusobacteria (26%) and revealed significant differences in its 
composition among the colonies. Funtional analysis using the PICRUSt software 
suggests a high number of pathways involved in the basal metabolism, such as 
those for carbohydrates (22%) and amino acids (20%), and those related to the 
degradation of persistent environmental pollutants. In addition, a DNA 
metabarcoding analysis of the same samples, via the amplification and sequencing 
of the mtRNA 16S and rRNA 18S genes, was used to identify the prey consumed by 
harbor seals revealing the consumption of prey with mainly demersal habits. 
Functional redundancy in the seal gut microbiota was observed, irrespective of 
diet or location. Our results indicate that the frequency of occurrence of 
specific prey in the harbor seal diet plays an important role in shaping the 
composition of the gut microbiota of harbor seals by influencing the relative 
abundance of specific groups of gut microorganisms. A significant relationship 
was found among diet, gut microbiota composition and OTUs assigned to a 
particular metabolic pathway.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0221770
PMCID: PMC6715212
PMID: 31465508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


94. mSphere. 2016 Nov 16;1(6):e00226-16. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00226-16. eCollection 
2016 Nov-Dec.

Microbial Community Patterns Associated with Automated Teller Machine Keypads in 
New York City.

Bik HM(1), Maritz JM(1), Luong A(2), Shin H(2), Dominguez-Bello MG(2), Carlton 
JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, Department of Biology, New York 
University, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Human Microbiome Program, New York University School of Medicine, New York, 
New York, USA.

In densely populated urban environments, the distribution of microbes and the 
drivers of microbial community assemblages are not well understood. In sprawling 
metropolitan habitats, the "urban microbiome" may represent a mix of 
human-associated and environmental taxa. Here we carried out a baseline study of 
automated teller machine (ATM) keypads in New York City (NYC). Our goal was to 
describe the biodiversity and biogeography of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic 
microbes in an urban setting while assessing the potential source of microbial 
assemblages on ATM keypads. Microbial swab samples were collected from three 
boroughs (Manhattan, Queens, and Brooklyn) during June and July 2014, followed 
by generation of Illumina MiSeq datasets for bacterial (16S rRNA) and eukaryotic 
(18S rRNA) marker genes. Downstream analysis was carried out in the QIIME 
pipeline, in conjunction with neighborhood metadata (ethnicity, population, age 
groups) from the NYC Open Data portal. Neither the 16S nor 18S rRNA datasets 
showed any clustering patterns related to geography or neighborhood 
demographics. Bacterial assemblages on ATM keypads were dominated by taxonomic 
groups known to be associated with human skin communities (Actinobacteria, 
Bacteroides, Firmicutes, and Proteobacteria), although SourceTracker analysis 
was unable to identify the source habitat for the majority of taxa. Eukaryotic 
assemblages were dominated by fungal taxa as well as by a low-diversity protist 
community containing both free-living and potentially pathogenic taxa 
(Toxoplasma, Trichomonas). Our results suggest that ATM keypads amalgamate 
microbial assemblages from different sources, including the human microbiome, 
eukaryotic food species, and potentially novel extremophilic taxa adapted to air 
or surfaces in the built environment. DNA obtained from ATM keypads may thus 
provide a record of both human behavior and environmental sources of microbes. 
IMPORTANCE Automated teller machine (ATM) keypads represent a specific and 
unexplored microhabitat for microbial communities. Although the number of built 
environment and urban microbial ecology studies has expanded greatly in recent 
years, the majority of research to date has focused on mass transit systems, 
city soils, and plumbing and ventilation systems in buildings. ATM surfaces, 
potentially retaining microbial signatures of human inhabitants, including both 
commensal taxa and pathogens, are interesting from both a biodiversity 
perspective and a public health perspective. By focusing on ATM keypads in 
different geographic areas of New York City with distinct population 
demographics, we aimed to characterize the diversity and distribution of both 
prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes, thus making a unique contribution to the 
growing body of work focused on the "urban microbiome." In New York City, the 
surface area of urban surfaces in Manhattan far exceeds the geographic area of 
the island itself. We have only just begun to describe the vast array of 
microbial taxa that are likely to be present across diverse types of urban 
habitats.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00226-16
PMCID: PMC5112336
PMID: 27904880


95. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Apr 15;191(8):932-42. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201409-1583OC.

Topographic diversity of the respiratory tract mycobiome and alteration in HIV 
and lung disease.

Cui L(1), Lucht L, Tipton L, Rogers MB, Fitch A, Kessinger C, Camp D, Kingsley 
L, Leo N, Greenblatt RM, Fong S, Stone S, Dermand JC, Kleerup EC, Huang L, 
Morris A, Ghedin E.

Author information:
(1)1 Center for Vaccine Research.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Apr 15;191(8):870-1.

RATIONALE: Microbiome studies typically focus on bacteria, but fungal species 
are common in many body sites and can have profound effects on the host. Wide 
gaps exist in the understanding of the fungal microbiome (mycobiome) and its 
relationship to lung disease.
OBJECTIVES: To characterize the mycobiome at different respiratory tract levels 
in persons with and without HIV infection and in HIV-infected individuals with 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
METHODS: Oral washes (OW), induced sputa (IS), and bronchoalveolar lavages (BAL) 
were collected from 56 participants. We performed 18S and internal transcribed 
spacer sequencing and used the neutral model to identify fungal species that are 
likely residents of the lung. We used ubiquity-ubiquity plots, random forest, 
logistic regression, and metastats to compare fungal communities by HIV status 
and presence of COPD.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mycobiomes of OW, IS, and BAL shared common 
organisms, but each also had distinct members. Candida was dominant in OW and 
IS, but BAL had 39 fungal species that were disproportionately more abundant 
than in the OW. Fungal communities in BAL differed significantly by HIV status 
and by COPD, with Pneumocystis jirovecii significantly overrepresented in both 
groups. Other fungal species were also identified as differing in HIV and COPD.
CONCLUSIONS: This study systematically examined the respiratory tract mycobiome 
in a relatively large group. By identifying Pneumocystis and other fungal 
species as overrepresented in the lung in HIV and in COPD, it is the first to 
determine alterations in fungal communities associated with lung dysfunction 
and/or HIV, highlighting the clinical relevance of these findings. Clinical 
trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT00870857).

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201409-1583OC
PMCID: PMC4435454
PMID: 25603113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2017 Aug 17;83(17):e00905-17. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00905-17. 
Print 2017 Sep 1.

Different Amplicon Targets for Sequencing-Based Studies of Fungal Diversity.

De Filippis F(1)(2), Laiola M(1), Blaiotta G(1), Ercolini D(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, 
Naples, Italy.
(2)Task Force on Microbiome Studies, University of Naples Federico II, Naples, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples Federico II, 
Naples, Italy ercolini@unina.it.

Target-gene amplicon sequencing is the most exploited high-throughput sequencing 
application in microbial ecology. The targets are taxonomically relevant genes, 
with 16S rRNA being the gold standard for bacteria. As for fungi, the most 
commonly used target is the internal transcribed spacer (ITS). However, the 
uneven ITS length among species may promote preferential amplification and 
sequencing and incorrect estimation of their abundance. Therefore, the use of 
different targets is desirable. We evaluated the use of three different target 
amplicons for the characterization of fungal diversity. After an in silico 
primer evaluation, we compared three amplicons (the ITS1-ITS2 region [ITS1-2], 
18S ribosomal small subunit RNA, and the D1/D2 domain of the 26S ribosomal large 
subunit RNA), using biological samples and a mock community of common fungal 
species. All three targets allowed for accurate identification of the species 
present. Nevertheless, high heterogeneity in ITS1-2 length was found, and this 
caused an overestimation of the abundance of species with a shorter ITS, while 
both 18S and 26S amplicons allowed for more reliable quantification. We 
demonstrated that ITS1-2 amplicon sequencing, although widely used, may lead to 
an incorrect evaluation of fungal communities, and efforts should be made to 
promote the use of different targets in sequencing-based microbial ecology 
studies.IMPORTANCE Amplicon-sequencing approaches for fungi may rely on 
different targets affecting the diversity and abundance of the fungal species. 
An increasing number of studies will address fungal diversity by high-throughput 
amplicon sequencing. The description of the communities must be accurate and 
reliable in order to draw useful insights and to address both ecological and 
biological questions. By analyzing a mock community and several biological 
samples, we demonstrate that using different amplicon targets may change the 
results of fungal microbiota analysis, and we highlight how a careful choice of 
the target is fundamental for a thorough description of the fungal communities.

Copyright © 2017 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00905-17
PMCID: PMC5561290
PMID: 28625991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Chin Med. 2019 Oct 22;14:45. doi: 10.1186/s13020-019-0267-4. eCollection 2019.

Variation in the microbial community contributes to the improvement of the main 
active compounds of Magnolia officinalis Rehd. et Wils in the process of 
sweating.

Wu Q(1)(2), Wei D(1)(2), Dong L(3), Liu Y(1)(2), Ren C(1)(2), Liu Q(1)(2), Chen 
C(1)(2), Chen J(1)(2), Pei J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Systematic Research, Development and 
Utilization of Chinese Medicine Resources, Chengdu, 611137 Sichuan China.
(2)2Pharmacy College, Chengdu University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, 
Chengdu, 611137 Sichuan China.
(3)3Institute of Chinese Materia Medica, China Academy of Chinese Medical 
Sciences, Beijing, 100700 China.

BACKGROUND: Magnolia officinalis Rehd. et Wils, commonly called Houpo, has been 
used for thousands of years in China as a traditional herbal medicine. The 
primary processing of Houpo requires sweating treatment, which is a special 
drying process and is considered to be an essential embodiment of high quality 
and genuine medicinal materials. The sweating of Houpo leads to peculiar changes 
in the microbial community structure and the content of main active substances 
(magnolol, honokiol, syringin and magnoflorine). Variation in the microbial 
community was considered the cause of the change in content of active substances 
of Houpo, although the microbial taxa responsible for the improvement of content 
remain unidentified.
METHODS: In this study, we used MiSeq high-throughput sequencing methods for 
partial bacterial 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA gene sequences to compare the bacterial 
and fungal community structures at different timepoints in the process of 
sweating. The content of the main active substances (magnolol, honokiol, 
syringin and magnoflorine) were determined by high-performance liquid 
chromatography analysis to evaluate the effects of sweating. UPLC-Q-Extractive 
Orbitrap mass spectrometry (UPLC-QE Orbitrap MS) was used to detection of 
differential metabolites of unsweated Houpo before and after co-culture with 
core bacterial solutions.
RESULTS: In this study, the total contents of magnolol (MG) and honokiol (HK) 
were significantly increased at 4 dp (dp for day PM sample), up to 3.75%, and 
the contents of syringin (SG) and magnoflorine (MF) were as high as 0.12% and 
0.06%, respectively. Bacterial abundance and diversity were higher in the early 
stage (0 day-2 da; da for day AM sample) than in the later stage (4-5 dp), while 
fungal abundance was more obvious in the later stage than in the early stage. 
Positive correlation coefficients revealed that the relative abundance of 
Enterobacter (P < 0.05), Klebsiella (P < 0.05), Weissella (P < 0.05), Bacillus 
(P < 0.05) and Candida (P < 0.05) would be conducive to improving the quality of 
Houpo. Negative correlation coefficients revealed that the relative abundance of 
Actinomycetospora, Singulisphaera, Mucilaginibacter, Deinococcus, Gemmatirosa, 
Methylobacterium, Sphingomonas, Hymenobacter, Halomonas and Capnobotryella could 
be a potential antagonist for the decrease in the quality of Houpo. After 
co-culture of single core strain and unsweated Houpo, there was no significant 
difference in the four main active components, but there were other metabolites 
with significant difference.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal that sweating increased the content of the main 
active compounds, promoted the relative abundance of potentially beneficial 
microbes, decreased the abundance of potentially harmful microbes, the core 
functional genera group together, forming a core microbiome, these genera are 
dominant across the different stages of the sweating process and contribute to 
the quality development of the characteristics of Houpo. Meanwhile, this study 
presented a clear scope for potential beneficial microbes that improve the 
quality of Houpo.

© The Author(s) 2019.

DOI: 10.1186/s13020-019-0267-4
PMCID: PMC6806532
PMID: 31660061

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


98. Microbiome. 2019 Oct 22;7(1):138. doi: 10.1186/s40168-019-0749-8.

Stochastic processes shape microeukaryotic community assembly in a subtropical 
river across wet and dry seasons.

Chen W(1)(2)(3), Ren K(1)(2), Isabwe A(1)(2), Chen H(1)(2), Liu M(1)(2), Yang 
J(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Aquatic EcoHealth Group, Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, 
Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen, 361021, 
China.
(2)Fujian Key Laboratory of Watershed Ecology, Institute of Urban Environment, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Marine Environmental Science, Marine Biodiversity and 
Global Change Research Center, College of Ocean and Earth Sciences, Xiamen 
University, Xiamen, 361102, China.
(4)Aquatic EcoHealth Group, Key Laboratory of Urban Environment and Health, 
Institute of Urban Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen, 361021, 
China. jyang@iue.ac.cn.
(5)Fujian Key Laboratory of Watershed Ecology, Institute of Urban Environment, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xiamen 361021, China. jyang@iue.ac.cn.

Erratum in
    Microbiome. 2019 Nov 14;7(1):148.

BACKGROUND: The deep mechanisms (deterministic and/or stochastic processes) 
underlying community assembly are a central challenge in microbial ecology. 
However, the relative importance of these processes in shaping riverine 
microeukaryotic biogeography is still poorly understood. Here, we compared the 
spatiotemporal and biogeographical patterns of microeukaryotic community using 
high-throughput sequencing of 18S rRNA gene and multivariate statistical 
analyses from a subtropical river during wet and dry seasons.
RESULTS: Our results provide the first description of biogeographical patterns 
of microeukaryotic communities in the Tingjiang River, the largest river in the 
west of Fujian province, southeastern China. The results showed that 
microeukaryotes from both wet and dry seasons exhibited contrasting community 
compositions, which might be owing to planktonic microeukaryotes having seasonal 
succession patterns. Further, all components of the microeukaryotic communities 
(including total, dominant, always rare, and conditionally rare taxa) exhibited 
a significant distance-decay pattern in both seasons, and these communities had 
a stronger distance-decay relationship during the dry season, especially for the 
conditionally rare taxa. Although several variables had a significant influence 
on the microeukaryotic communities, the environmental and spatial factors showed 
minor roles in shaping the communities. Importantly, these microeukaryotic 
communities were strongly driven by stochastic processes, with 89.9%, 88.5%, and 
89.6% of the community variation explained by neutral community model during 
wet, dry, and both seasons, respectively. The neutral community model also 
explained a large fraction of the community variation across different taxonomic 
groups and levels. Additionally, the microeukaryotic taxa, which were above and 
below the neutral prediction, were ecologically and taxonomically distinct 
groups, which might be interactively structured by deterministic and stochastic 
processes.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated that stochastic processes are sufficient in 
shaping substantial variation in river microeukaryotic metacommunity across 
different hydrographic regimes, thereby providing a better understanding of 
spatiotemporal patterns, processes, and mechanisms of microeukaryotic community 
in waters.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-019-0749-8
PMCID: PMC6806580
PMID: 31640783

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


99. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2019 Feb 6;85(4):e02657-18. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02657-18. 
Print 2019 Feb 15.

Changes in the Rumen Microbiota of Cows in Response to Dietary Supplementation 
with Nitrate, Linseed, and Saponin Alone or in Combination.

Popova M(1), Guyader J(2)(3), Silberberg M(2), Seradj AR(2)(4), Saro C(2), 
Bernard A(2), Gérard C(3), Martin C(2), Morgavi DP(2).

Author information:
(1)Université Clermont Auvergne, INRA, VetAgro Sup, UMR Herbivores, 
Saint-Genès-Champanelle, France milka.popova@inra.fr.
(2)Université Clermont Auvergne, INRA, VetAgro Sup, UMR Herbivores, 
Saint-Genès-Champanelle, France.
(3)NEOVIA, Saint Nolff, France.
(4)Departament Producció Animal, Universidad de Lleida, ETSEA, Lleida, Spain.

Dietary supplementation with linseed, saponins, and nitrate is a promising 
methane mitigation strategy in ruminant production. Here, we aimed to assess the 
effects of these additives on the rumen microbiota in order to understand 
underlying microbial mechanisms of methane abatement. Two 2-by-2 factorial 
design studies were conducted simultaneously, which also allowed us to make a 
broad-based assessment of microbial responses. Eight nonlactating cows were fed 
diets supplemented with linseed or saponin in order to decrease hydrogen 
production and nitrate to affect hydrogen consumption; also, combinations of 
linseed plus nitrate or saponin plus nitrate were used to explore the 
interaction between dietary treatments. Previous work assessed effects on 
methane and fermentation patterns. Rumen microbes were studied by sequencing 18S 
and 16S rRNA genes and ITS1 amplicons. Methanogen activity was monitored by 
following changes in mcrA transcript abundance. Nitrate fed alone or in 
combination in both studies dramatically affected the composition and structure 
of rumen microbiota, although impacts were more evident in one of the studies. 
Linseed moderately modified only bacterial community structure. Indicator 
operational taxonomic unit (OTU) analysis revealed that both linseed and nitrate 
reduced the relative abundance of hydrogen-producing Ruminococcaceae Linseed 
increased the proportion of bacteria known to reduce succinate to propionate, 
whereas nitrate supplementation increased nitrate-reducing bacteria and 
decreased the metabolic activity of rumen methanogens. Saponins had no effect on 
the microbiota. Inconsistency found between the two studies with nitrate 
supplementation could be explained by changes in microbial ecosystem functioning 
rather than changes in microbial community structure.IMPORTANCE This study aimed 
at identifying the microbial mechanisms of enteric methane mitigation when 
linseed, nitrate, and saponins were fed to nonlactating cows alone or in a 
combination. Hydrogen is a limiting factor in rumen methanogenesis. We 
hypothesized that linseed and saponins would affect hydrogen producers and 
nitrate would affect hydrogen consumption, leading to reduced methane production 
in the rumen. Contrary to what was predicted, both linseed and nitrate had a 
deleterious effect on hydrogen producers; linseed also redirected hydrogen 
consumption toward propionate production, whereas nitrate stimulated the growth 
of nitrate-reducing and, hence, hydrogen-consuming bacterial taxa. This novel 
knowledge of microbial mechanisms involved in rumen methanogenesis provides 
insights for the development and optimization of methane mitigation strategies.

Copyright © 2019 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02657-18
PMCID: PMC6365829
PMID: 30504215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Vet Intern Med. 2020 Mar;34(2):986-995. doi: 10.1111/jvim.15707. Epub 2020 Jan 
27.

Tracheal microbial populations in horses with moderate asthma.

Manguin E(1), Pépin E(1), Boivin R(1), Leclere M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Université 
de Montréal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: There are limited data on potential dysbiosis of the airway 
microbiota in horses with asthma.
HYPOTHESIS/OBJECTIVES: We hypothesized that the respiratory microbiota of horses 
with moderate asthma is altered. Our objectives were (a) to quantify tracheal 
bacterial populations using culture and qPCR, (2) to compare aerobic culture and 
qPCR, and (c) to correlate bacterial populations with bronchoalveolar lavage 
fluid (BALF) cytology.
ANIMALS: Eighteen horses with moderate asthma from a hospital population and 10 
controls.
METHODS: Prospective case-control study. Aerobic culture was performed on 
tracheal aspirates, and streptococci, Pasteurella multocida, Chlamydophila spp., 
Mycoplasma spp., as well as 16S (bacterial) and 18S (fungal) rRNA subunits were 
quantified by qPCR.
RESULTS: Potential pathogens such as Streptococcus spp., Actinobacillus spp., 
and Pasteurellaceae were isolated from 8, 5, and 6 horses with asthma and 3, 0, 
and 2 controls, respectively. There was a positive correlation between 
Streptococcus spp. DNA and 16S rRNA gene (r ≥ 0.7, P ≤ 0.02 in both groups), but 
the overall bacterial load (16S) was lower in asthma (1.5 ± 1.3 versus 
2.5 ± 0.8 × 104 copy/μL, P < 0.05). There was no association between microbial 
populations and clinical signs, tracheal mucus or BALF inflammation.
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: This study does not support that bacterial 
overgrowth is a common feature of chronic moderate asthma in horses. Lower 
bacterial load could suggest dysbiosis of the lower airways, either as a 
consequence of chronic inflammation or previous treatments, or as a perpetuating 
factor of inflammation.

© 2020 The Authors. Journal of Veterinary Internal Medicine published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of the American College of Veterinary Internal 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jvim.15707
PMCID: PMC7096658
PMID: 31985115

Conflict of interest statement: Authors declare no conflict of interest.


101. PeerJ. 2016 Mar 29;4:e1829. doi: 10.7717/peerj.1829. eCollection 2016.

Mussel biofiltration effects on attached bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in 
fish-rearing seawater.

Voudanta E(1), Kormas KA(2), Monchy S(1), Delegrange A(1), Vincent D(1), 
Genitsaris S(1), Christaki U(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Océanologie et Géosciences (LOG), UMR CNRS 8187, Université du 
Littoral Côte d' Opale , Wimereux , France.
(2)Department of Ichthyology & Aquatic Environment, School of Agricultural 
Sciences, University of Thessaly , Volos , Greece.

Mussel biofiltration is a widely used approach for the mitigation of aquaculture 
water. In this study, we investigated the effect of mussel biofiltration on the 
communities of particle-associated bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes in a sea 
bass aquaculture in southern North Sea. We assessed the planktonic community 
changes before and after biofiltration based on the diversity of the 16S and 18S 
rRNA genes by using next generation sequencing technologies. Although there was 
no overall reduction in the operational taxonomic units (OTU) numbers between 
the control (no mussels) and the test (with mussels) tanks, a clear reduction in 
the relative abundance of the top three most dominant OTUs in every sampling 
time was observed, ranging between 2-28% and 16-82% for Bacteria and Eukarya, 
respectively. The bacterial community was dominated by OTUs related to 
phytoplankton blooms and/or high concentrations of detritus. Among the 
eukaryotes, several fungal and parasitic groups were found. Their relative 
abundance in most cases was also reduced from the control to the test tanks; a 
similar decreasing pattern was also observed for both major higher taxa and 
functional (trophic) groups. Overall, this study showed the effectiveness of 
mussel biofiltration on the decrease of microbiota abundance and diversity in 
seawater fueling fish farms.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.1829
PMCID: PMC4824906
PMID: 27069786

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare there are no competing 
interests.


102. Microbiome. 2017 Apr 8;5(1):42. doi: 10.1186/s40168-017-0259-5.

Novel soil-inhabiting clades fill gaps in the fungal tree of life.

Tedersoo L(1), Bahram M(2)(3), Puusepp R(2), Nilsson RH(4), James TY(5).

Author information:
(1)Natural History Museum, University of Tartu, 14a Ravila, 50411, Tartu, 
Estonia. leho.tedersoo@ut.ee.
(2)Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences, University of Tartu, 14a Ravila, 
50411, Tartu, Estonia.
(3)Systematic Biology, Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala University, 
Norbyvägen 18D, 75236, Uppsala, Sweden.
(4)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of 
Gothenburg, Box 463, 405 30, Göteborg, Sweden.
(5)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI, 48109, USA.

BACKGROUND: Fungi are a diverse eukaryotic group of degraders, pathogens, and 
symbionts, with many lineages known only from DNA sequences in soil, sediments, 
air, and water.
RESULTS: We provide rough phylogenetic placement and principal niche analysis 
for >40 previously unrecognized fungal groups at the order and class level from 
global soil samples based on combined 18S (nSSU) and 28S (nLSU) rRNA gene 
sequences. Especially, Rozellomycota (Cryptomycota), Zygomycota s.lat, 
Ascomycota, and Basidiomycota are rich in novel fungal lineages, most of which 
exhibit distinct preferences for climate and soil pH.
CONCLUSIONS: This study uncovers the great phylogenetic richness of previously 
unrecognized order- to phylum-level fungal lineages. Most of these rare groups 
are distributed in different ecosystems of the world but exhibit distinct 
ecological preferences for climate or soil pH. Across the fungal kingdom, 
tropical and non-tropical habitats are equally likely to harbor novel groups. We 
advocate that a combination of traditional and high-throughput sequencing 
methods enable efficient recovery and phylogenetic placement of such unknown 
taxonomic groups.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-017-0259-5
PMCID: PMC5385062
PMID: 28388929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Food Sci Biotechnol. 2017 Sep 21;27(1):241-249. doi: 10.1007/s10068-017-0200-5. 
eCollection 2018 Feb.

Characterization of microbial community composition and pathogens risk 
assessment in typical Italian-style salami by high-throughput sequencing 
technology.

Wang X(1), Ren H(2), Zhan Y(3).

Author information:
(1)1Meat-processing Application Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province, College of 
Pharmacy and Biological Engineering, Chengdu University, Chengdu, 610106 China.
(2)2School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Southwest Petroleum 
University, Chengdu, 610500 China.
(3)3College of Tourism and Economics Management, Chengdu University, Chengdu, 
610106 China.

The structure of microbial communities in a typical Italian-style salami, 
including bacterial and fungal diversity, was investigated by high-throughput 
sequencing technology. A total of 6 phyla, 7 classes, 19 orders, 20 families and 
28 genera were obtained from 16S rDNA sequences, and a total of 2 phyla, 4 
classes, 4 orders, 5 families, 10 genera and 12 Species were obtained from 18S 
rDNA sequences. The core microbiota was composed of Staphylococcaceae, 
representing up to 97.52% of the total 16S rRNA, and Penicillium digitatum, 
accounting for 99.74% of the total classified 18S rRNA. Lactobacillales and 
Saccharomycetales were detected with a quite low proportion of 1.71 and 0.007%, 
respectively. This study contributes to the knowledge of the microbial diversity 
involved in salami and presents high-throughput sequencing as a useful tool to 
evaluate microbial diversity and monitor the food-borne pathogens in fermented 
sausage.

DOI: 10.1007/s10068-017-0200-5
PMCID: PMC6049741
PMID: 30263746

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethical standardsThe authors 
declare no conflict of interest.This article does not contain any studies with 
human participants or animals performed by any of the authors.


104. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2016 Dec 15;83(1):e02526-16. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02526-16. 
Print 2017 Jan 1.

Discordant Temporal Turnovers of Sediment Bacterial and Eukaryotic Communities 
in Response to Dredging: Nonresilience and Functional Changes.

Zhang N(1)(2), Xiao X(1)(2), Pei M(3), Liu X(4), Liang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Soil and Sustainable Agriculture, Institute of Soil 
Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing, China.
(2)University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)School of Environmental and Safety Engineering, Changzhou University, 
Jiangsu, China.
(4)State Key Joint Laboratory of Environment Simulation and Pollution Control, 
School of Environment, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Soil and Sustainable Agriculture, Institute of Soil 
Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing, China ytliang@issas.ac.cn.

To study the stability and succession of sediment microbial and macrobenthic 
communities in response to anthropogenic disturbance, a time-series sampling was 
conducted before, during, and 1 year after dredging in the Guan River in 
Changzhou, China, which was performed with cutter suction dredgers from 10 April 
to 20 May 2014. The microbial communities were analyzed by sequencing bacterial 
16S rRNA and eukaryotic 18S rRNA gene amplicons with Illumina MiSeq, and the 
macrobenthic community was identified using a morphological approach 
simultaneously. The results indicated that dredging disturbance significantly 
altered the composition and structures of sediment communities. The succession 
rates of communities were estimated by comparing the slopes of time-decay 
relationships. The temporal turnover of microeukaryotes (w = 0.3251, P < 0.001 
[where w is a measure of the rate of log(species turnover) across log(time)]) 
was the highest, followed by that of bacteria (w = 0.2450, P < 0.001), and then 
macrobenthos (w = 0.1273, P < 0.001). During dredging, the alpha diversities of 
both bacterial and microeukaryotic communities were more resistant, but their 
beta diversities were less resistant than that of macrobenthos. After recovery 
for 1 year, all three sediment communities were not resilient and had reached an 
alternative state. The alterations in sediment community structure and stability 
resulted in functional changes in nitrogen and carbon cycling in sediments. 
Sediment pH, dissolved oxygen, redox potential, and temperature were the most 
important factors influencing the stability of sediment communities and 
ecosystem multifunctionality. This study suggests that discordant temporal 
turnovers and nonresilience of sediment communities under dredging resulted in 
functional changes, which are important for predicting sediment ecosystem 
functions under anthropogenic disturbances.
IMPORTANCE: Understanding the temporal turnover and stability of biotic 
communities is crucial for predicting the responses of sediment ecosystems to 
dredging disturbance. Most studies to date focused on the bacterial or 
macrobenthic community, only at two discontinuous time points, before and after 
dredging, and hence, it was difficult to analyze the community succession. This 
study first compared the stabilities and temporal changes of sediment bacterial, 
microeukaryotic, and macrobenthic communities at a continuous time course. The 
results showed that discordant responses of the three communities are mainly 
related to their different biological inherent attributes, and sensitivities to 
sediment geochemical variables change with dredging, resulting in changes in 
sediment ecosystem multifunctionality.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02526-16
PMCID: PMC5165113
PMID: 27793828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Microbiologyopen. 2018 Dec 18;8(7):e783. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.783. Online ahead of 
print.

Dosage-dependent effects of monensin on the rumen microbiota of lactating dairy 
cattle.

McGarvey JA(1), Place S(2), Palumbo J(1), Hnasko R(1), Mitloehner F(3).

Author information:
(1)United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, 
Albany, California.
(2)National Cattlemen's Association, Sustainable Beef Production Research, 
Centennial, Colorado.
(3)Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis, California.

We examined the dose-dependent effects of feeding lactating dairy cows a 
standard diet supplemented with monensin at 175, 368, or 518 mg cow-1 day-1 on 
the rumen microbiota. For each dosage, 3 animals were randomly assigned into 
groups and fed the same basal total mixed ration diet supplemented with 
monensin, at the respective dose. After 20 days, rumen samples were taken and 
the effect on the microbiota was examined by 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis and 
qPCR. At the lowest dose no significant change in 16S rRNA gene sequences 
associated with any bacterial phyla was observed; however, at the medium and 
high dosages, we observed significant reductions in sequences associated with 
gram-positive bacteria and significant increases in those associated with 
gram-negative bacteria that were dosage dependent. All dosages reduced the 
levels of sequences associated with methanogenic archaea in the rumen, with the 
medium dosage showing the largest decline. No significant difference was 
observed for the 18S rRNA gene sequences associated with protozoa in any of the 
libraries. Our results indicate that with this diet the medium dosage of 
monensin was most efficacious for the reduction in methanogenic archaea in the 
rumen of lactating dairy.

© 2018 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.783
PMCID: PMC6612561
PMID: 30565435

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest declared.


106. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2017 Jun;14(6):341-349. doi: 10.1089/fpd.2016.2265. Epub 
2017 Feb 27.

The In Vitro and In Vivo Effect of Carvacrol in Preventing Campylobacter 
Infection, Colonization and in Improving Productivity of Chicken Broilers.

Kelly C(1), Gundogdu O(2), Pircalabioru G(3), Cean A(4), Scates P(1), Linton 
M(1), Pinkerton L(1), Magowan E(5), Stef L(4), Simiz E(4), Pet I(4), Stewart 
S(1), Stabler R(2), Wren B(2), Dorrell N(2), Corcionivoschi N(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)1 Veterinary Science Division, Bacteriology Branch, Agri-Food and Biosciences 
Institute , Belfast, United Kingdom .
(2)2 London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , London, United Kingdom .
(3)3 University of Bucharest , ICUB, Bucharest, Romania .
(4)4 School of Animal Science and Biotechnology, Banat University of Animal 
Sciences and Veterinary Medicine-King Michael I of Romania , Timisoara, Romania 
.
(5)5 Sustainable Agri-Food Sciences Division, Agriculture Branch, Agri-Food and 
Biosciences Institute, Hillsborough, United Kingdom .

The current trend in reducing the antibiotic usage in animal production imposes 
urgency in the identification of novel biocides. The essential oil carvacrol, 
for example, changes the morphology of the cell and acts against a variety of 
targets within the bacterial membranes and cytoplasm, and our in vitro results 
show that it reduces adhesion and invasion of chicken intestinal primary cells 
and also biofilm formation. A trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of 
dietary supplementation of carvacrol at four concentrations (0, 120, 200, and 
300 mg/kg of diet) on the performance of Lactobacillus spp., Escherichia coli, 
Campylobacter spp., and broilers. Each of the four diets was fed to three 
replicates/trial of 50 chicks each from day 0 to 35. Our results show that 
carvacrol linearly decreased feed intake, feed conversion rates and increased 
body weight at all levels of supplementation. Plate count analysis showed that 
Campylobacter spp. was only detected at 35 days in the treatment groups compared 
with the control group where the colonization occurred at 21 days. The absence 
of Campylobacter spp. at 21 days in the treatment groups was associated with a 
significant increase in the relative abundance of Lactobacillus spp. Also, 
carvacrol was demonstrated to have a significant effect on E. coli numbers in 
the cecum of the treatment groups, at all supplementation levels. In conclusion, 
this study shows for the first time that at different concentrations, carvacrol 
can delay Campylobacter spp., colonization of chicken broilers, by inducing 
changes in gut microflora, and it demonstrates promise as an alternative to the 
use of antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1089/fpd.2016.2265
PMID: 28398869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. PeerJ. 2017 Aug 14;5:e3625. doi: 10.7717/peerj.3625. eCollection 2017.

Microbial communities in the reef water at Kham Island, lower Gulf of Thailand.

Somboonna N(1), Wilantho A(2), Monanunsap S(3), Chavanich S(4), 
Tangphatsornruang S(2), Tongsima S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Genome Technology Research Unit, National Center for Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology, Pathum Thani, Thailand.
(3)Marine and Coastal Resources Research Center, Lower Gulf of Thailand, 
Department of Marine and Coastal Resources, Ministry of Natural Resources and 
Environment, Songkhla, Thailand.
(4)Department of Marine Science, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.

Coral reefs are among the most biodiverse habitats on Earth, but knowledge of 
their associated marinemicrobiome remains limited. To increase the understanding 
of the coral reef ecosystem in the lower Gulf of Thailand, this study utilized 
16S and 18S rRNA gene-based pyrosequencing to identify the prokaryotic and 
eukaryotic microbiota present in the reef water at Kham Island, Trat province, 
Thailand (N6.97 E100.86). The obtained result was then compared with the 
published microbiota from different coral reef water and marine sites. The coral 
reefs at Kham Island are of the fringe type. The reefs remain preserved and 
abundant. The community similarity indices (i.e., Lennon similarity index, Yue & 
Clayton similarity index) indicated that the prokaryotic composition of Kham was 
closely related to that of Kra, another fringing reef site in the lower Gulf of 
Thailand, followed by coral reef water microbiota at GS048b (Cooks Bay, Fr. 
Polynesia), Palmyra (Northern Line Islands, United States) and GS108b (Coccos 
Keeling, Australia), respectively. Additionally, the microbial eukaryotic 
populations at Kham was analyzed and compared with the available database at 
Kra. Both eukaryotic microbiota, in summer and winter seasons, were correlated. 
An abundance of Dinophysis acuminata was noted in the summer season, in 
accordance with its reported cause of diarrhoeatic shellfish outbreak in the 
summer season elsewhere. The slightly lower biodiversity in Kham than at Kra 
might reflect the partly habitat difference due to coastal anthropogenic 
activities and minor water circulation, as Kham locates close to the mainland 
and is surrounded by islands (e.g., Chang and Kut islands). The global marine 
microbiota comparison suggested relatively similar microbial structures among 
coral sites irrespective of geographical location, supporting the importance of 
coral-associated marine microbiomes, and Spearman's correlation analysis between 
community membership and factors of shore distance and seawater temperature 
indicated potential correlation of these factors (p-values < 0.05) with Kham, 
Kra, and some other coral and coastal sites. Together, this study provided the 
second marine microbial database for the coral reef of the lower Gulf of 
Thailand, and a comparison of the coral-associated marine microbial diversity 
among global ocean sites.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.3625
PMCID: PMC5560237
PMID: 28828243

Conflict of interest statement: Suchana Chavanich is an Academic Editor for 
PeerJ.


108. mSphere. 2017 Dec 13;2(6):e00488-17. doi: 10.1128/mSphere.00488-17. eCollection 
2017 Nov-Dec.

Novel ITS1 Fungal Primers for Characterization of the Mycobiome.

Usyk M(1), Zolnik CP(1)(2), Patel H(3), Levi MH(3)(4), Burk RD(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, Long Island University, Brooklyn, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York, USA.
(5)Departments of Obstetrics & Gynecology and Women's Health, Epidemiology and 
Population Health, and Microbiology & Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.

Studies of the human microbiome frequently omit characterization of fungal 
communities (the mycobiome), which limits our ability to investigate how fungal 
communities influence human health. The internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) 
region of the eukaryotic ribosomal cluster has features allowing for wide 
taxonomic coverage and has been recognized as a suitable barcode region for 
species-level identification of fungal organisms. We developed custom ITS1 
primer sets using iterative alignment refinement. Primer performance was 
evaluated using in silico testing and experimental testing of fungal cultures 
and human samples. Using an expanded novel reference database, SIS 
(18S-ITS1-5.8S), the newly designed primers showed an average in silico 
taxonomic coverage of 79.9% ± 7.1% compared to a coverage of 44.6% ± 13.2% using 
previously published primers (P = 0.05). The newly described primer sets 
recovered an average of 21,830 ± 225 fungal reads from fungal isolate culture 
samples, whereas the previously published primers had an average of 3,305 ± 
1,621 reads (P = 0.03). Of note was an increase in the taxonomic coverage of the 
Candida genus, which went from a mean coverage of 59.5% ± 13% to 100.0% ± 0.0% 
(P = 0.0015) comparing the previously described primers to the new primers, 
respectively. The newly developed ITS1 primer sets significantly improve general 
taxonomic coverage of fungal communities infecting humans and increased read 
depth by an order of magnitude over the best-performing published primer set 
tested. The overall best-performing primer pair in terms of taxonomic coverage 
and read recovery, ITS1-30F/ITS1-217R, will aid in advancing research in the 
area of the human mycobiome. IMPORTANCE The mycobiome constitutes all the fungal 
organisms within an environment or biological niche. The fungi are eukaryotes, 
are extremely heterogeneous, and include yeasts and molds that colonize humans 
as part of the microbiome. In addition, fungi can also infect humans and cause 
disease. Characterization of the bacterial component of the microbiome was 
revolutionized by 16S rRNA gene fragment amplification, next-generation 
sequencing technologies, and bioinformatics pipelines. Characterization of the 
mycobiome has often not been included in microbiome studies because of 
limitations in amplification systems. This report revisited the selection of PCR 
primers that amplify the fungal ITS1 region. We have identified primers with 
superior identification of fungi present in the database. We have compared the 
new primer sets against those previously used in the literature and show a 
significant improvement in read count and taxon identification. These primers 
should facilitate the study of fungi in human physiology and disease states.

DOI: 10.1128/mSphere.00488-17
PMCID: PMC5729218
PMID: 29242834


109. Microb Ecol. 2017 Nov;74(4):923-936. doi: 10.1007/s00248-017-0996-9. Epub 2017 
May 24.

An 18S rRNA Workflow for Characterizing Protists in Sewage, with a Focus on 
Zoonotic Trichomonads.

Maritz JM(1), Rogers KH(2), Rock TM(1), Liu N(3), Joseph S(1), Land KM(3), 
Carlton JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, Department of Biology, New York 
University, New York, NY, 10003, USA.
(2)Wildlife Investigations Laboratory, California Department of Fish and 
Wildlife, Rancho Cordova, CA, 95670, USA.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, University of the Pacific, Stockton, CA, 
95211, USA.
(4)Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, Department of Biology, New York 
University, New York, NY, 10003, USA. jane.carlton@nyu.edu.

Microbial eukaryotes (protists) are important components of terrestrial and 
aquatic environments, as well as animal and human microbiomes. Their 
relationships with metazoa range from mutualistic to parasitic and zoonotic 
(i.e., transmissible between humans and animals). Despite their ecological 
importance, our knowledge of protists in urban environments lags behind that of 
bacteria, largely due to a lack of experimentally validated high-throughput 
protocols that produce accurate estimates of protist diversity while minimizing 
non-protist DNA representation. We optimized protocols for detecting zoonotic 
protists in raw sewage samples, with a focus on trichomonad taxa. First, we 
investigated the utility of two commonly used variable regions of the 18S rRNA 
marker gene, V4 and V9, by amplifying and Sanger sequencing 23 different 
eukaryotic species, including 16 protist species such as Cryptosporidium parvum, 
Giardia intestinalis, Toxoplasma gondii, and species of trichomonad. Next, we 
optimized wet-lab methods for sample processing and Illumina sequencing of both 
regions from raw sewage collected from a private apartment building in New York 
City. Our results show that both regions are effective at identifying several 
zoonotic protists that may be present in sewage. A combination of small 
extractions (1 mL volumes) performed on the same day as sample collection, and 
the incorporation of a vertebrate blocking primer, is ideal to detect protist 
taxa of interest and combat the effects of metazoan DNA. We expect that the 
robust, standardized methods presented in our workflow will be applicable to 
investigations of protists in other environmental samples, and will help 
facilitate large-scale investigations of protistan diversity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00248-017-0996-9
PMCID: PMC5653731
PMID: 28540488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. ETHICS APPROVAL: This study does not contain 
any studies with human participants performed by any of the authors. All 
procedures performed in studies involving animals were in accordance with the 
ethical standards of the institution or practice at which the studies were 
conducted. Bird sampling procedures were approved under the U.S. Fish and 
Wildlife Service Scientific Collecting Permit (MB03368B) issued to the Wildlife 
Investigations Laboratory, California Department of Fish and Wildlife.


110. BMC Bioinformatics. 2019 Jun 11;20(1):310. doi: 10.1186/s12859-019-2896-0.

Taxonomy based performance metrics for evaluating taxonomic assignment methods.

Chen CY(1), Tang SL(2), Chou ST(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Information Management, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
106, Taiwan.
(2)Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei, 115, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Information Management, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
106, Taiwan. chou@ntu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Metagenomics experiments often make inferences about microbial 
communities by sequencing 16S and 18S rRNA, and taxonomic assignment is a 
fundamental step in such studies. This paper addresses the weaknesses in two 
types of metrics commonly used by previous studies for measuring the performance 
of existing taxonomic assignment methods: Sequence count based metrics and 
Binary error measurement. These metrics made performance evaluation results 
biased, less informative and mutually incomparable.
RESULTS: We investigated weaknesses in two types of metrics and proposed new 
performance metrics including Average Taxonomy Distance (ATD) and ATD_by_Taxa, 
together with the visualized ATD plot.
CONCLUSIONS: By comparing the evaluation results from four popular taxonomic 
assignment methods across three test data sets, we found the new metrics more 
robust, informative and comparable.

DOI: 10.1186/s12859-019-2896-0
PMCID: PMC6561758
PMID: 31185897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


111. Sci Rep. 2018 Nov 30;8(1):17521. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-35578-y.

Gene mutation associated with esl mediates shifts on fungal community 
composition in rhizosphere soil of rice at grain-filling stage.

Letuma P(1)(2)(3)(4), Arafat Y(3)(5), Waqas M(1)(2)(3), Lin F(3)(5), Lin 
W(3)(5), Zhang Y(1)(2)(3), Masita M(5)(4), Fan K(3)(5), Li Z(6)(7), Lin 
W(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)College of Crop Science, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 
350002, Fujian, China.
(2)Key Laboratory for Genetics, Breeding and Multiple Utilization of Crops, 
Ministry of Education, Fuzhou, China.
(3)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Agroecological Processing and Safety 
Monitoring, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, China.
(4)Crop Science Department, Faculty of Agriculture, National University of 
Lesotho, Roma, 180, Lesotho.
(5)College of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 
China.
(6)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Agroecological Processing and Safety 
Monitoring, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, China. 
lizw197@163.com.
(7)College of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 
China. lizw197@163.com.
(8)College of Crop Science, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 
350002, Fujian, China. lxw@fafu.edu.cn.
(9)Key Laboratory for Genetics, Breeding and Multiple Utilization of Crops, 
Ministry of Education, Fuzhou, China. lxw@fafu.edu.cn.
(10)Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of Agroecological Processing and Safety 
Monitoring, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, China. 
lxw@fafu.edu.cn.
(11)College of Life Sciences, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou, China. lxw@fafu.edu.cn.

Generally, plant roots shape the rhizosphere fungal community but how individual 
plant genes involved in senescence affect this shaping is less studied. We used 
an early senescence leaf (esl) mutant rice and compared it with its isogenic 
wild type variety to evaluate the effect of the vacuolar H+-ATPase (VHA-A1) gene 
mutation on the rhizosphere fungal community structure and composition using a 
metagenomic pyrosequencing approach. The most predominate fungal phyla 
identified for both isogenic lines belonged to Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and 
Glomeromycota, where Ascomycota were more prevalent in the esl mutant than the 
wild type variety. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis confirmed a significant 
rise in the richness of Cladosporium cladosporioides in esl mutant rice than the 
wild type variety. Correlation analysis revealed four most abundant genera 
identified for the esl mutant and their close association with yield and biomass 
decline, lipid peroxidation, lower root vitality, chlorophyll degradation and 
limited VHA activity. Higher K+ efflux, H+ and a lower Ca2+ influx was also 
observed in the esl mutant which could be the reason for abnormal functioning of 
mutant plants. These results illustrate that besides the well-known effect of 
senescence on plant physiology and yield decline, it can further shape the 
rhizosphere fungal community.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-35578-y
PMCID: PMC6269515
PMID: 30504850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


112. Microbes Environ. 2018 Mar 29;33(1):98-101. doi: 10.1264/jsme2.ME17112. Epub 
2017 Dec 12.

Eukaryotic Microbiomes of Membrane-Attached Biofilms in Membrane Bioreactors 
Analyzed by High-Throughput Sequencing and Microscopic Observations.

Inaba T(1), Hori T(1), Sato Y(1), Aoyagi T(1), Hanajima D(2), Ogata A(1), Habe 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)Environmental Management Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology (AIST).
(2)Dairy Research Division, Hokkaido Agricultural Research Center, National 
Agricultural and Food Research Organization (NARO).

Limited information is currently available on the contribution of eukaryotes to 
the reactor performance of membrane bioreactors (MBRs). Using high-throughput 
Illumina sequencing of 18S rRNA genes and microscopic observations, we 
investigated eukaryotic microbiomes in membrane-attached biofilms in MBRs 
treating piggery wastewater. Protozoa preying on bacteria were frequently 
detected under stable conditions when membrane clogging was suppressed. However, 
the eukaryotes preying upon protozoa became predominant in biofilms when 
membrane fouling rapidly progressed. We herein demonstrated that a comprehensive 
investigation of eukaryotic microbiomes using high-throughput sequencing 
contributes to a better understanding of the microbial ecology involved in 
wastewater treatment.

DOI: 10.1264/jsme2.ME17112
PMCID: PMC5877349
PMID: 29237993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Microbiome. 2018 Sep 1;6(1):151. doi: 10.1186/s40168-018-0529-x.

Detecting eukaryotic microbiota with single-cell sensitivity in human tissue.

Lager S(1)(2), de Goffau MC(3), Sovio U(1)(2), Peacock SJ(3)(4)(5), Parkhill 
J(3), Charnock-Jones DS(1)(2), Smith GCS(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Cambridge, National 
Institute for Health Research Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, 
UK.
(2)Centre for Trophoblast Research (CTR), Department of Physiology, Development 
and Neuroscience, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(3)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(5)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Cambridge, National 
Institute for Health Research Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre, Cambridge, 
UK. gcss2@cam.ac.uk.
(7)Centre for Trophoblast Research (CTR), Department of Physiology, Development 
and Neuroscience, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. gcss2@cam.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    Microbiome. 2018 Oct 20;6(1):188.

BACKGROUND: Fetal growth restriction, pre-eclampsia, and pre-term birth are 
major adverse pregnancy outcomes. These complications are considerable 
contributors to fetal/maternal morbidity and mortality worldwide. A significant 
proportion of these cases are thought to be due to dysfunction of the placenta. 
However, the underlying mechanisms of placental dysfunction are unclear. The aim 
of the present study was to investigate whether adverse pregnancy outcomes are 
associated with evidence of placental eukaryotic infection.
RESULTS: We modified the 18S Illumina Amplicon Protocol of the Earth Microbiome 
Project and made it capable of detecting just a single spiked-in genome copy of 
Plasmodium falciparum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, or Toxoplasma gondii among more 
than 70,000 human cells. Using this method, we were unable to detect eukaryotic 
pathogens in placental biopsies in instances of adverse pregnancy outcome 
(n = 199) or in healthy controls (n = 99).
CONCLUSIONS: Eukaryotic infection of the placenta is not an underlying cause of 
the aforementioned pregnancy complications. Possible clinical applications for 
this non-targeted, yet extremely sensitive, eukaryotic screening method are 
manifest.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-018-0529-x
PMCID: PMC6119588
PMID: 30172254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
POP study was approved by the Cambridgeshire 2 Research Ethics Committee 
(reference number 07/H0308/163). All study participants gave informed written 
consent. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: J.P. is a 
paid consultant to Specific Technologies Llc. The rest of the authors have no 
competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


114. Front Microbiol. 2017 Dec 8;8:2350. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.02350. eCollection 
2017.

Composition of Micro-eukaryotes on the Skin of the Cascades Frog (Rana cascadae) 
and Patterns of Correlation between Skin Microbes and Batrachochytrium 
dendrobatidis.

Kueneman JG(1)(2), Weiss S(3), McKenzie VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado 
Boulder, Boulder, CO, United States.
(2)Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Panama City, Panama.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Colorado 
Boulder, Boulder, CO, United States.

Global amphibian decline linked to fungal pathogens has galvanized research on 
applied amphibian conservation. Skin-associated bacterial communities of 
amphibians have been shown to mediate fungal skin infections and the development 
of probiotic treatments with antifungal bacteria has become an emergent area of 
research. While exploring the role of protective bacteria has been a primary 
focus for amphibian conservation, we aim to expand and study the other microbes 
present in amphibian skin communities including fungi and other 
micro-eukaryotes. Here, we characterize skin-associated bacteria and 
micro-eukaryotic diversity found across life stages of Cascades frog (Rana 
cascadae) and their associated aquatic environments using culture independent 
16S and 18S rRNA marker-gene sequencing. Individuals of various life stages of 
Cascades frogs were sampled from a population located in the Trinity Alps in 
Northern California during an epidemic of the chytrid fungus, Batrachochytrium 
dendrobatidis. We filtered the bacterial sequences against a published database 
of bacteria known to inhibit B. dendrobatidis in co-culture to estimate the 
proportion of the skin bacterial community that is likely to provide defense 
against B. dendrobatidis. Tadpoles had a significantly higher proportion of B. 
dendrobatidis-inhibitory bacterial sequence matches relative to subadult and 
adult Cascades frogs. We applied a network analysis to examine patterns of 
correlation between bacterial taxa and B. dendrobatidis, as well as 
micro-eukaryotic taxa and B. dendrobatidis. Combined with the published database 
of bacteria known to inhibit B. dendrobatidis, we used the network analysis to 
identify bacteria that negatively correlated with B. dendrobatidis and thus 
could be good probiotic candidates in the Cascades frog system.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2017.02350
PMCID: PMC5727676
PMID: 29276502


115. Sci Rep. 2017 Jun 28;7(1):4344. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-04016-w.

Deciphering biodiversity and interactions between bacteria and microeukaryotes 
within epilithic biofilms from the Loue River, France.

Zancarini A(1), Echenique-Subiabre I(1)(2), Debroas D(3)(4), Taïb N(4), Quiblier 
C(2)(5), Humbert JF(6).

Author information:
(1)iEES Paris, UMR UPMC-CNRS-IRD-INRA-Univ. Paris, 7-UPEC, Paris, France.
(2)Unité Molécules de Communication et Adaptation des Microorganismes, Muséum 
National d'Histoire Naturelle, CNRS, Paris, France.
(3)Laboratoire "Microorganismes: Génome et Environnement", Clermont Université, 
Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(4)Laboratoire "Microorganismes: Génome et Environnement", CNRS, Aubière, 
France.
(5)Université Paris Diderot, Paris, France.
(6)iEES Paris, UMR UPMC-CNRS-IRD-INRA-Univ. Paris, 7-UPEC, Paris, France. 
jean-francois.humbert@upmc.fr.

Epilithic river biofilms are complex matrix-enclosed communities harboring a 
great diversity of prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms. Interactions 
between these communities and the relative impacts of environmental factors on 
their compositions are poorly understood. In this study, we assessed the 
spatio-temporal variation in the diversity and composition of bacterial and 
microeukaryotic communities within biofilms in a French river. Significant 
changes were found in the composition of these microbial communities over the 
sampling period and between the upstream and downstream stations. In addition, 
the beta diversity of the bacterial community tended to decrease along the 
river, mostly as a result of turnover. These changes could be caused by the 
different water temperatures and geological and hydrological river contexts at 
the sampling sites (from karst landscape to river plain). Finally, our network 
analysis showed multiple correlations among dominant OTUs. Among them, negative 
correlations between Rhodobacteraceae and two other dominant groups of 
photosynthetic microorganisms (cyanobacteria and diatoms) were particularly 
interesting, which raises the question of what environmental factors trigger the 
changes occurring in benthic microbial photosynthetic communities.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-04016-w
PMCID: PMC5489527
PMID: 28659582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


116. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 20;6:35272. doi: 10.1038/srep35272.

Integrated analysis of bacterial and microeukaryotic communities from 
differentially active mud volcanoes in the Gulf of Cadiz.

Coelho FJ(1), Louvado A(1), Domingues PM(1)(2), Cleary DF(1), Ferreira M(1), 
Almeida A(1), Cunha MR(1), Cunha Â(1), Gomes NC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology &CESAM, University of Aveiro, Campus de Santiago, 
3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal.
(2)Department of Chemistry &CICECO, University of Aveiro, Campus de Santiago, 
3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal.

The present study assesses the diversity and composition of sediment bacterial 
and microeukaryotic communities from deep-sea mud volcanoes (MVs) associated 
with strike-slip faults in the South-West Iberian Margin (SWIM). We used a 
16S/18S rRNA gene based pyrosequencing approach to characterize and correlate 
the sediment bacterial and microeukaryotic communities from MVs with differing 
gas seep regimes and from an additional site with no apparent seeping activity. 
In general, our results showed significant compositional changes of bacterial 
and microeukaryotic communities in sampling sites with different seepage 
regimes. Sediment bacterial communities were enriched with Methylococcales 
(putative methanotrophs) but had lower abundances of Rhodospirillales, 
Nitrospirales and SAR202 in the more active MVs. Within microeukaryotic 
communities, members of the Lobosa (lobose amoebae) were enriched in more active 
MVs. We also showed a strong correlation between Methylococcales populations and 
lobose amoeba in active MVs. This study provides baseline information on the 
diversity and composition of bacterial and microeukaryotic communities in 
deep-sea MVs associated with strike-slip faults.

DOI: 10.1038/srep35272
PMCID: PMC5071872
PMID: 27762306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2013 Apr;84(1):201-12. doi: 10.1111/1574-6941.12055. Epub 
2012 Dec 31.

Stability of a biogas-producing bacterial, archaeal and fungal community 
degrading food residues.

Bengelsdorf FR(1), Gerischer U, Langer S, Zak M, Kazda M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Microbiology and Biotechnology, University of Ulm, Ulm, 
Germany. frank.bengelsdorf@uni-ulm.de

The resident microbiota was analyzed in a mesophilic, continuously operating 
biogas plant predominantly utilizing food residues, stale bread, and other waste 
cosubstrates together with pig manure and maize silage. The dominating 
bacterial, archaeal, and eukaryotic community members were characterized by two 
different 16S/18S rRNA gene culture-independent approaches. Prokaryotic 16S rRNA 
gene and eukaryotic 18S rRNA gene clone libraries were constructed and further 
analyzed by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), 16S/18S rRNA gene 
sequencing, and phylogenetic tree reconstruction. The most dominant bacteria 
belonged to the phyla Bacteriodetes, Chloroflexus, and Firmicutes. On the family 
level, the bacterial composition confirmed high differences among biogas plants 
studied so fare. In contrast, the methanogenic archaeal community was similar to 
that of other studied biogas plants. Furthermore, it was possible to identify 
fungi at the genus level, namely Saccharomyces and Mucor. Both genera, which are 
important for microbial degradation of complex compounds, were up to now not 
found in biogas plants. The results revealed their long-term presence as 
indicated by denaturating gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The DGGE method 
confirmed that the main members of the microbial community were constantly 
present over more than one-year period.

© 2012 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Blackwell 
Publishing Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1574-6941.12055
PMID: 23228065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. PLoS One. 2017 Jul 5;12(7):e0179718. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0179718. 
eCollection 2017.

The microbial community characteristics of ancient painted sculptures in 
Maijishan Grottoes, China.

Duan Y(1), Wu F(2)(3), Wang W(1)(2)(3), He D(2), Gu JD(4), Feng H(3), Chen T(1), 
Liu G(1), An L(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Extreme Environmental Microbial Resources and Engineering, 
Gansu Province, Northwest Institute of Eco-Environment and Resources, University 
of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou, P.R.China.
(2)National Research Center for Conservation of Ancient Wall Paintings and 
Earthen Sites, Dunhuang Academy, Dunhuang, Gansu, P.R.China.
(3)MOE Key Laboratory of Cell Activities and Stress Adaptations, School of Life 
Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, P.R.China.
(4)Laboratory of Environmental Microbiology and Toxicology, School of Biological 
Sciences, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, P.R.China.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2017 Aug 15;12 (8):e0183598.
    PLoS One. 2018 Mar 22;13(3):e0194902.

In this study, a culture-independent Illumina MiSeq sequencing strategy was 
applied to investigate the microbial communities colonizing the ancient painted 
sculptures of the Maijishan Grottoes, a famous World Cultural Heritage site 
listed by UNESCO in China. Four mixed samples were collected from Cave 4-4 of 
the Maijishan Grottoes, the so-called Upper Seven Buddha Pavilion, which was 
built during the Northern Zhou Dynasty (557-581AD). The 16/18S rRNA gene-based 
sequences revealed a rich bacterial diversity and a relatively low fungal 
abundance, including the bacterial groups Actinobacteria, Acidobacteria, 
Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacteria, Chloroflexi, Firmicutes, Proteobacteria and 
Verrucomicrobia and the fungal groups Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and 
Chytridiomycota. Among them, the bacteria genera of Pseudonocardia and 
Rubrobacter and unclassified fungi in the order of Capnodiales were dominant. 
The relative abundance of Pseudonocardia in the painted layer samples was higher 
than that in the dust sample, while Cyanobacteria dominated in the dust sample. 
Many of them have been discovered at other cultural heritage sites and 
associated with the biodeterioration of cultural relics. The presence and 
activity of these pioneering microorganisms may lead to an unexpected 
deterioration of the painted sculptures that are preserved in this heritage 
site. Thus, proper management strategies and potential risk monitoring should be 
used in the Maijishan Grottoes to improve the conservation of these precious 
painted sculptures.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0179718
PMCID: PMC5497971
PMID: 28678844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


119. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2017 Apr 28;27(4):678-684. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1605.05011.

Microbial Diversity during Fermentation of Sweet Paste, a Chinese Traditional 
Seasoning, Using PCR-Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis.

Mao P(1), Hu Y(1), Liao T(1), Wang Z(1), Zhao S(1)(2), Liang Y(1)(2), Hu 
Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, College of Life Science 
and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 430070, P.R. China.
(2)Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for Industrial Fermentation, Wuhan 
430068, P.R. China.

The aim of this study was to elucidate the changes in the microbial community 
and biochemical properties of a traditional sweet paste during fermentation. 
PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis showed that 
Aspergillus oryzae was the predominant species in the koji (the fungal mixture), 
and the majority of the fungi isolated belonged to two Zygosaccharomyces species 
in the mash. The bacterial DGGE profiles revealed the presence of Bacillus 
subtilis during fermentation, and Lactobacillus acidipiscis, Lactobacillus 
pubuzihii, Lactobacillus sp., Staphylococcus kloosi, and several uncultured 
bacteria were also detected in the mash after 14 days of main fermentation. 
Additionally, during main fermentation, amino-type nitrogen and total acid 
increased gradually to a maximum of 6.77 ± 0.25 g/kg and 19.10 ± 0.58 g/kg (30 
days) respectively, and the concentration of reducing sugar increased to 337.41 
± 3.99 g/kg (7 days). The 180-day fermented sweet paste contained 261.46 ± 19.49 
g/kg reducing sugar and its pH value remained at around 4.65. This study has 
used the PCR-DGGE technique to demonstrate the microbial community (including 
bacteria and fungi) in sweet paste and provides useful information (biochemical 
properties) about the assessment of the quality of sweet paste throughout 
fermentation.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1605.05011
PMID: 28081358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Ecol Evol. 2017 Dec 27;8(2):1352-1368. doi: 10.1002/ece3.3676. eCollection 2018 
Jan.

Mosquito vector-associated microbiota: Metabarcoding bacteria and eukaryotic 
symbionts across habitat types in Thailand endemic for dengue and other 
arthropod-borne diseases.

Thongsripong P(1)(2)(3), Chandler JA(1)(4), Green AB(5), Kittayapong P(6), 
Wilcox BA(7), Kapan DD(8)(9), Bennett SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology Institute of Biodiversity Sciences and 
Sustainability California Academy of Sciences San Francisco CA USA.
(2)Department of Tropical Medicine Medical Microbiology, and Pharmacology 
University of Hawai'i at Manoa Honolulu HI USA.
(3)Present address: Department of Tropical Medicine Tulane University New 
Orleans LA USA.
(4)Present address: Department of Molecular and Cell Biology University of 
California Berkeley CA USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology University of Hawai'i at Manoa Honolulu HI USA.
(6)Center of Excellence for Vectors and Vector-Borne Diseases and Department of 
Biology Faculty of Science Mahidol University at Salaya Nakhon Pathom Thailand.
(7)Global Health Asia and Integrative Research and Education Program Faculty of 
Public Health Mahidol University Bangkok Thailand.
(8)Department of Entomology and Center for Comparative Genomics Institute of 
Biodiversity Sciences and Sustainability California Academy of Sciences San 
Francisco CA USA.
(9)Center for Conservation and Research Training Pacific Biosciences Research 
Center University of Hawai'i at Manoa Honolulu HI USA.

Vector-borne diseases are a major health burden, yet factors affecting their 
spread are only partially understood. For example, microbial symbionts can 
impact mosquito reproduction, survival, and vectorial capacity, and hence affect 
disease transmission. Nonetheless, current knowledge of mosquito-associated 
microbial communities is limited. To characterize the bacterial and eukaryotic 
microbial communities of multiple vector species collected from different 
habitat types in disease endemic areas, we employed next-generation 454 
pyrosequencing of 16S and 18S rRNA amplicon libraries, also known as 
metabarcoding. We investigated pooled whole adult mosquitoes of three medically 
important vectors, Aedes aegypti, Ae. albopictus, and Culex quinquefasciatus, 
collected from different habitats across central Thailand where we previously 
characterized mosquito diversity. Our results indicate that diversity within the 
mosquito microbiota is low, with the majority of microbes assigned to one or a 
few taxa. Two of the most common eukaryotic and bacterial genera recovered 
(Ascogregarina and Wolbachia, respectively) are known mosquito endosymbionts 
with potentially parasitic and long evolutionary relationships with their hosts. 
Patterns of microbial composition and diversity appeared to differ by both 
vector species and habitat for a given species, although high variability 
between samples suggests a strong stochastic element to microbiota assembly. In 
general, our findings suggest that multiple factors, such as habitat condition 
and mosquito species identity, may influence overall microbial community 
composition, and thus provide a basis for further investigations into the 
interactions between vectors, their microbial communities, and human-impacted 
landscapes that may ultimately affect vector-borne disease risk.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.3676
PMCID: PMC5773340
PMID: 29375803


121. BMC Microbiol. 2013 May 24;13:114. doi: 10.1186/1471-2180-13-114.

Baseline survey of the anatomical microbial ecology of an important food plant: 
Solanum lycopersicum (tomato).

Ottesen AR(1), González Peña A, White JR, Pettengill JB, Li C, Allard S, Rideout 
S, Allard M, Hill T, Evans P, Strain E, Musser S, Knight R, Brown E.

Author information:
(1)FDA Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, Division of Microbiology, 
Molecular Methods and Subtyping, 5100 Paint Branch Parkway, College Park, MD 
20740, USA. andrea.ottesen@fda.hhs.gov

BACKGROUND: Research to understand and control microbiological risks associated 
with the consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables has examined many 
environments in the farm to fork continuum. An important data gap however, that 
remains poorly studied is the baseline description of microflora that may be 
associated with plant anatomy either endemically or in response to environmental 
pressures. Specific anatomical niches of plants may contribute to persistence of 
human pathogens in agricultural environments in ways we have yet to describe. 
Tomatoes have been implicated in outbreaks of Salmonella at least 17 times 
during the years spanning 1990 to 2010. Our research seeks to provide a baseline 
description of the tomato microbiome and possibly identify whether or not there 
is something distinctive about tomatoes or their growing ecology that 
contributes to persistence of Salmonella in this important food crop.
RESULTS: DNA was recovered from washes of epiphytic surfaces of tomato 
anatomical organs; leaves, stems, roots, flowers and fruits of Solanum 
lycopersicum (BHN602), grown at a site in close proximity to commercial farms 
previously implicated in tomato-Salmonella outbreaks. DNA was amplified for 
targeted 16S and 18S rRNA genes and sheared for shotgun metagenomic sequencing. 
Amplicons and metagenomes were used to describe "native" bacterial microflora 
for diverse anatomical parts of Virginia-grown tomatoes.
CONCLUSIONS: Distinct groupings of microbial communities were associated with 
different tomato plant organs and a gradient of compositional similarity could 
be correlated to the distance of a given plant part from the soil. Unique 
bacterial phylotypes (at 95% identity) were associated with fruits and flowers 
of tomato plants. These include Microvirga, Pseudomonas, Sphingomonas, 
Brachybacterium, Rhizobiales, Paracocccus, Chryseomonas and Microbacterium. The 
most frequently observed bacterial taxa across aerial plant regions were 
Pseudomonas and Xanthomonas. Dominant fungal taxa that could be identified to 
genus with 18S amplicons included Hypocrea, Aureobasidium and Cryptococcus. No 
definitive presence of Salmonella could be confirmed in any of the plant 
samples, although 16S sequences suggested that closely related genera were 
present on leaves, fruits and roots.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2180-13-114
PMCID: PMC3680157
PMID: 23705801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Sci Rep. 2017 Nov 10;7(1):15348. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-15598-w.

Early diverging lineages within Cryptomycota and Chytridiomycota dominate the 
fungal communities in ice-covered lakes of the McMurdo Dry Valleys, Antarctica.

Rojas-Jimenez K(1)(2), Wurzbacher C(1)(3), Bourne EC(3)(4), Chiuchiolo A(5), 
Priscu JC(5), Grossart HP(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Limnology, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology 
and Inland Fisheries, Alte Fischerhuette 2, D-16775, Stechlin, Germany.
(2)Universidad Latina de Costa Rica, Campus San Pedro, Apdo, 10138-1000, San 
Jose, Costa Rica.
(3)Berlin Center for Genomics in Biodiversity Research, Königin-Luise-Straβe 
6-8, D-14195, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Department of 
Ecosystem Research, Mϋggelseedamm 301 & 210, D-16775 Stechlin, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Montana State University, Department of Land Resources and Environmental 
Sciences, 334 Leon Johnson Hall, MT 59717, Bozeman, USA.
(6)Department of Experimental Limnology, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology 
and Inland Fisheries, Alte Fischerhuette 2, D-16775, Stechlin, Germany. 
hgrossart@igb-berlin.de.
(7)Institute for Biochemistry and Biology, Potsdam University, Maulbeerallee 2, 
14469, Potsdam, Germany. hgrossart@igb-berlin.de.

Antarctic ice-covered lakes are exceptional sites for studying the ecology of 
aquatic fungi under conditions of minimal human disturbance. In this study, we 
explored the diversity and community composition of fungi in five permanently 
covered lake basins located in the Taylor and Miers Valleys of Antarctica. Based 
on analysis of the 18S rRNA sequences, we showed that fungal taxa represented 
between 0.93% and 60.32% of the eukaryotic sequences. Cryptomycota and 
Chytridiomycota dominated the fungal communities in all lakes; however, members 
of Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, Zygomycota, and Blastocladiomycota were also 
present. Of the 1313 fungal OTUs identified, the two most abundant, belonging to 
LKM11 and Chytridiaceae, comprised 74% of the sequences. Significant differences 
in the community structure were determined among lakes, water depths, habitat 
features (i.e., brackish vs. freshwaters), and nucleic acids (DNA vs. RNA), 
suggesting niche differentiation. Network analysis suggested the existence of 
strong relationships among specific fungal phylotypes as well as between fungi 
and other eukaryotes. This study sheds light on the biology and ecology of basal 
fungi in aquatic systems. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing the 
predominance of early diverging lineages of fungi in pristine limnetic 
ecosystems, particularly of the enigmatic phylum Cryptomycota.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-15598-w
PMCID: PMC5681503
PMID: 29127335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


123. BMC Vet Res. 2015 Aug 25;11:223. doi: 10.1186/s12917-015-0525-3.

Update on epidemiology of canine babesiosis in Southern France.

René-Martellet M(1)(2), Moro CV(3), Chêne J(4), Bourdoiseau G(5), Chabanne 
L(6)(7), Mavingui P(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Université de Lyon, VetAgro Sup, Jeune équipe Hémopathogènes vectorisés, 
Marcy l'Etoile, France. magalie.renemartellet@vetagro-sup.fr.
(2)INRA, UR 0346 Epidémiologie Animale, 63122, Saint-Genès-Champanelle, France. 
magalie.renemartellet@vetagro-sup.fr.
(3)Université de Lyon, Ecologie microbienne, UMR CNRS 5557, USC INRA 1364, 
VetAgro Sup, Université Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France. 
claire.valiente-moro@univ-lyon1.fr.
(4)Université de Lyon, VetAgro Sup, Jeune équipe Hémopathogènes vectorisés, 
Marcy l'Etoile, France. jeanne.chene@vetagro-sup.fr.
(5)Université de Lyon, VetAgro Sup, Jeune équipe Hémopathogènes vectorisés, 
Marcy l'Etoile, France. gilles.bourdoiseau@vetagro-sup.fr.
(6)Université de Lyon, VetAgro Sup, Jeune équipe Hémopathogènes vectorisés, 
Marcy l'Etoile, France. luc.chabanne@vetagro-sup.fr.
(7)INRA, UR 0346 Epidémiologie Animale, 63122, Saint-Genès-Champanelle, France. 
luc.chabanne@vetagro-sup.fr.
(8)Université de Lyon, Ecologie microbienne, UMR CNRS 5557, USC INRA 1364, 
VetAgro Sup, Université Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France. 
patrick.mavingui@univ-lyon1.fr.
(9)Université de La Réunion, Unité Mixte de Recherche Processus Infectieux en 
Milieu Insulaire Tropical (UMR PIMIT), INSERM 1187, CNRS 9192, IRD 249, 
Plateforme de Recherche CYROI, Saint-Denis, 97490, Ste Clotilde, La Réunion, 
France. patrick.mavingui@univ-lyon1.fr.

BACKGROUND: Canine babesiosis is an emerging or re-emerging disease caused by 
Babesia and Theileria protozoans, also called piroplasms, transmitted by Ixodid 
ticks. In Europe, four etiological agents have been identified to date, namely 
Babesia canis, B. vogeli, B. gibsoni and Theileria annae. France has a high 
prevalence of canine babesiosis and two tick species, Dermacentor reticulatus 
and Rhipicephalus sanguineus, are supposed to transmit B. canis and B. vogeli 
respectively. In southern France, where dog infections with B. vogeli were 
recently confirmed, no comprehensive study was performed to date on piroplasm 
species infecting dogs. Thus, a large scale survey involving veterinary clinics, 
kennels and tick collection from the environment was conducted from 2010 to 2012 
in this area.
RESULTS: From 2010 to 2012, 140 dog blood samples and 667 ticks were collected. 
All blood and a subset of ticks were screened for the presence of piroplasms by 
PCR amplification of 18S rDNA. B. vogeli, B. canis and T. annae were detected in 
13.6, 12.9 and 0.7 % dogs respectively. B. vogeli and B. canis were detected in 
10.5 % and in 1.6 % R. sanguineus ticks including 1.3 % co-infections. B. canis 
was the only species detected in D. reticulatus ticks (9.7 %). B. canis 
infections were only recorded in the southwest of France whereas B. vogeli was 
mainly found in the southeast. Finally, a significantly higher prevalence of B. 
vogeli infection was found in Gard compared to Corsica and Drôme regions, both 
in dogs (p < 0.002) and R. sanguineus ticks (p < 0.02) although R. sanguineus 
was the main ticks species removed from dogs in those three areas.
CONCLUSIONS: The survey confirmed the circulation of both B. canis and B. vogeli 
in dogs in southern France with differences in distribution probably linked to 
the distribution of their respective vectors. It also showed differences in 
prevalence of B. vogeli infection in areas similar in terms of risk of dogs 
infestation with R. sanguineus. Further studies focusing on genetic and 
microbiota of R. sanguineus ticks should be conducted to explore other 
biological interactions that may explain the differences observed.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-015-0525-3
PMCID: PMC4547427
PMID: 26303260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Sci Rep. 2015 May 14;5:10117. doi: 10.1038/srep10117.

An Integrated Metagenomics/Metaproteomics Investigation of the Microbial 
Communities and Enzymes in Solid-state Fermentation of Pu-erh tea.

Zhao M(1), Zhang DL(2), Su XQ(2), Duan SM(2), Wan JQ(2), Yuan WX(2), Liu BY(3), 
Ma Y(2), Pan YH(4).

Author information:
(1)1] College of Longrun Pu-erh Tea, Yunnan Agricultural University, Kunming 
650201, Yunnan, China [2] Yunnan Research Center on Good Agricultural Practice 
for Dominant Chinese Medicinal Materials, Yunnan Agricultural University, 
Kunming 650201, Yunnan, China.
(2)College of Longrun Pu-erh Tea, Yunnan Agricultural University, Kunming 
650201, Yunnan, China.
(3)Tea Research Institute of Yunnan Academy of Agricultural Science, Menghai 
666201, China.
(4)Institute of Crop Sciences, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 
100081, China.

Microbial enzymes during solid-state fermentation (SSF), which play important 
roles in the food, chemical, pharmaceutical and environmental fields, remain 
relatively unknown. In this work, the microbial communities and enzymes in SSF 
of Pu-erh tea, a well-known traditional Chinese tea, were investigated by 
integrated metagenomics/metaproteomics approach. The dominant bacteria and fungi 
were identified as Proteobacteria (48.42%) and Aspergillus (94.98%), through 
pyrosequencing-based analyses of the bacterial 16S and fungal 18S rRNA genes, 
respectively. In total, 335 proteins with at least two unique peptides were 
identified and classified into 28 Biological Processes and 35 Molecular Function 
categories using a metaproteomics analysis. The integration of metagenomics and 
metaproteomics data demonstrated that Aspergillus was dominant fungus and major 
host of identified proteins (50.45%). Enzymes involved in the degradation of the 
plant cell wall were identified and associated with the soft-rotting of tea 
leaves. Peroxiredoxins, catalase and peroxidases were associated with the 
oxidation of catechins. In conclusion, this work greatly advances our 
understanding of the SSF of Pu-erh tea and provides a powerful tool for studying 
SSF mechanisms, especially in relation to the microbial communities present.

DOI: 10.1038/srep10117
PMCID: PMC4431464
PMID: 25974221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Curr Biol. 2014 Apr 14;24(8):813-21. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.02.050. Epub 2014 
Apr 3.

Patterns of rare and abundant marine microbial eukaryotes.

Logares R(1), Audic S(2), Bass D(3), Bittner L(4), Boutte C(2), Christen R(5), 
Claverie JM(6), Decelle J(2), Dolan JR(7), Dunthorn M(8), Edvardsen B(9), Gobet 
A(2), Kooistra WH(10), Mahé F(4), Not F(2), Ogata H(11), Pawlowski J(12), 
Pernice MC(13), Romac S(2), Shalchian-Tabrizi K(9), Simon N(2), Stoeck T(8), 
Santini S(6), Siano R(14), Wincker P(15), Zingone A(10), Richards TA(16), de 
Vargas C(2), Massana R(13).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Ciències del Mar (ICM), CSIC, Passeig Marítim de la Barceloneta 
37-49, 08003 Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: ramiro.logares@gmail.com.
(2)ADMM UMR 7144, UPMC Paris 06, Station Biologique de Roscoff, 29682 Roscoff, 
France; ADMM UMR 7144, CNRS, Station Biologique de Roscoff, 29682 Roscoff, 
France.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum, Cromwell Road, London 
SW7 5BD, UK.
(4)ADMM UMR 7144, UPMC Paris 06, Station Biologique de Roscoff, 29682 Roscoff, 
France; ADMM UMR 7144, CNRS, Station Biologique de Roscoff, 29682 Roscoff, 
France; Department of Ecology, University of Kaiserslautern, 
67663 Kaiserslautern, Germany.
(5)SAE UMR 7138, CNRS, Parc Valrose BP71, 06108 Nice Cedex 02, France; SAE UMR 
7138, Université de Nice-Sophia Antipolis, Parc Valrose BP71, 06108 Nice Cedex 
02, France.
(6)IGS UMR 7256, CNRS, Aix-Marseille Université, 13288 Marseille, France.
(7)LOV UMR 7093, CNRS, UPMC Paris 06, 06230 Villefranche-sur-Mer, France.
(8)Department of Ecology, University of Kaiserslautern, 67663 Kaiserslautern, 
Germany.
(9)Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1066 Blindern, 0316 
Oslo, Norway.
(10)Ecology and Evolution of Plankton, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn, Villa 
Comunale 1, 80121 Naples, Italy.
(11)IGS UMR 7256, CNRS, Aix-Marseille Université, 13288 Marseille, France; 
Education Academy of Computational Life Sciences, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 
Tokyo 152-8552, Japan.
(12)Department of Genetics and Evolution, University of Geneva, 1211 Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(13)Institut de Ciències del Mar (ICM), CSIC, Passeig Marítim de la Barceloneta 
37-49, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.
(14)Ifremer, Centre de Brest, DYNECO/Pelagos BP70, 29280 Plouzané, France.
(15)CEA, Genoscope, 2 Rue Gaston Crémieux, 91000 Evry, France.
(16)Biosciences, University of Exeter, Geoffrey Pope Building, Exeter EX4 4QD, 
UK.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2014 Apr 14;24(8):R315-7.

BACKGROUND: Biological communities are normally composed of a few abundant and 
many rare species. This pattern is particularly prominent in microbial 
communities, in which most constituent taxa are usually extremely rare. Although 
abundant and rare subcommunities may present intrinsic characteristics that 
could be crucial for understanding community dynamics and ecosystem functioning, 
microbiologists normally do not differentiate between them. Here, we investigate 
abundant and rare subcommunities of marine microbial eukaryotes, a crucial group 
of organisms that remains among the least-explored biodiversity components of 
the biosphere. We surveyed surface waters of six separate coastal locations in 
Europe, independently considering the picoplankton, nanoplankton, and 
microplankton/mesoplankton organismal size fractions.
RESULTS: Deep Illumina sequencing of the 18S rRNA indicated that the abundant 
regional community was mostly structured by organismal size fraction, whereas 
the rare regional community was mainly structured by geographic origin. However, 
some abundant and rare taxa presented similar biogeography, pointing to 
spatiotemporal structure in the rare microeukaryote biosphere. Abundant and rare 
subcommunities presented regular proportions across samples, indicating similar 
species-abundance distributions despite taxonomic compositional variation. 
Several taxa were abundant in one location and rare in other locations, 
suggesting large oscillations in abundance. The substantial amount of 
metabolically active lineages found in the rare biosphere suggests that this 
subcommunity constitutes a diversity reservoir that can respond rapidly to 
environmental change.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose that marine planktonic microeukaryote assemblages 
incorporate dynamic and metabolically active abundant and rare subcommunities, 
with contrasting structuring patterns but fairly regular proportions, across 
space and time.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2014.02.050
PMID: 24704080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e59474. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059474. Epub 2013 Mar 15.

Plant and fungal diversity in gut microbiota as revealed by molecular and 
culture investigations.

Gouba N(1), Raoult D, Drancourt M.

Author information:
(1)Aix Marseille Université, URMITE, UMR63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198, Inserm 1095, 
Marseille, France.

BACKGROUND: Few studies describing eukaryotic communities in the human gut 
microbiota have been published. The objective of this study was to investigate 
comprehensively the repertoire of plant and fungal species in the gut microbiota 
of an obese patient.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A stool specimen was collected from a 
27-year-old Caucasian woman with a body mass index of 48.9 who was living in 
Marseille, France. Plant and fungal species were identified using a PCR-based 
method incorporating 25 primer pairs specific for each eukaryotic phylum and 
universal eukaryotic primers targeting 18S rRNA, internal transcribed spacer 
(ITS) and a chloroplast gene. The PCR products amplified using these primers 
were cloned and sequenced. Three different culture media were used to isolate 
fungi, and these cultured fungi were further identified by ITS sequencing. A 
total of 37 eukaryotic species were identified, including a Diatoms 
(Blastocystis sp.) species, 18 plant species from the Streptophyta phylum and 18 
fungal species from the Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and Chytridiocomycota phyla. 
Cultures yielded 16 fungal species, while PCR-sequencing identified 7 fungal 
species. Of these 7 species of fungi, 5 were also identified by culture. 
Twenty-one eukaryotic species were discovered for the first time in human gut 
microbiota, including 8 fungi (Aspergillus flavipes, Beauveria bassiana, Isaria 
farinosa, Penicillium brevicompactum, Penicillium dipodomyicola, Penicillium 
camemberti, Climacocystis sp. and Malassezia restricta). Many fungal species 
apparently originated from food, as did 11 plant species. However, four plant 
species (Atractylodes japonica, Fibraurea tinctoria, Angelica anomala, Mitella 
nuda) are used as medicinal plants.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Investigating the eukaryotic components of gut 
microbiota may help us to understand their role in human health.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059474
PMCID: PMC3598745
PMID: 23555039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


127. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2011 Aug;53(2):134-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-765X.2011.03076.x. Epub 2011 May 31.

Characterization and comparison of microbial community of different typical 
Chinese liquor Daqus by PCR-DGGE.

Wang HY(1), Gao YB, Fan QW, Xu Y.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Key Laboratory of 
Industrial Biotechnology of Ministry of Education & School of Biotechnology, 
Jiangnan University, Jiangsu, China.

AIMS: To identify and compare microbiota in Chinese liquor Daqu, which were 
produced in the different regions using different production process.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The DNA exacted from Daqu samples was used as a template 
for PCR with universal primers of 16S rRNA, 26S rRNA and 18S rRNA, respectively. 
The amplicons were analysed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis 
(DGGE). It was observed that the bacterial DGGE profile indicated high diversity 
and predominance of lactic acid bacteria. The results showed that 
Saccharomycopsis fibuligera and Pichia anomal were dominant yeast species and 
that several non-Saccharomyces yeasts including Hanseniaspora guilliermondii, 
Debaryomyces hansenii, Issatchenkia orientalis and Trichosporon asahii were also 
detected. As for fungal DGGE, Aspergillus oryzae and Absidia blakesleeana were 
the most common species amongst different samples. Based on the DGGE analysis, a 
few differences in community structure were found between Daqu samples.
CONCLUSIONS: A variety of bacteria, yeast and moulds were identified in Daqu 
samples, in addition to the present knowledge obtained mainly through the 
traditional culture-dependent methods. Moreover, production temperature played a 
more decisive role on the formation of micro-organism composition in Daqu than 
geographical region.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: PCR-DGGE technique was used in this study 
to fully observe and asses all microbial community (including bacteria, yeast 
and mould) in Chinese liquor Daqu for the first time and proved to be effective 
in profiling Daqu microbial diversity.

© 2011 The Authors. Letters in Applied Microbiology © 2011 The Society for 
Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-765X.2011.03076.x
PMID: 21554340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Front Microbiol. 2020 Feb 28;11:123. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00123. eCollection 
2020.

Extending Burk Dehority's Perspectives on the Role of Ciliate Protozoa in the 
Rumen.

Firkins JL(1), Yu Z(1), Park T(1), Plank JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, 
United States.

Dr. Burk Dehority was an international expert on the classification and 
monoculture of ruminal ciliated protozoa. We have summarized many of the 
advancements in knowledge from his work but also in his scientific way of 
thinking about interactions of ruminal ciliates with the entire rumen microbial 
community and animal host. As a dedication to his legacy, an electronic library 
of high-resolution images and video footage catalogs numerous species and 
techniques involved in taxonomy, isolation, culture, and ecological assessment 
of ruminal ciliate species and communities. Considerable promise remains to 
adapt these landmark approaches to harness eukaryotic cell signaling technology 
with genomics and transcriptomics to assess cellular mechanisms regulating 
growth and responsiveness to ruminal environmental conditions. These 
technologies can be adapted to study how protozoa interact (both antagonism and 
mutualism) within the entire ruminal microbiota. Thus, advancements and 
limitations in approaches used are highlighted such that future research 
questions can be posed to study rumen protozoal contribution to ruminant 
nutrition and productivity.

Copyright © 2020 Firkins, Yu, Park and Plank.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00123
PMCID: PMC7058926
PMID: 32184759


129. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 20;8(12):e82864. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082864. 
eCollection 2013.

First evidence of genetic intraspecific variability and occurrence of Entamoeba 
gingivalis in HIV(+)/AIDS.

Cembranelli SB(1), Souto FO(1), Ferreira-Paim K(1), Richinho TT(1), Nunes PL(1), 
Nascentes GA(1), Ferreira TB(1), Correia D(1), Lages-Silva E(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious and Parasitic Diseases Unit and Parasitology Unit, Federal 
University of Triangulo Mineiro, Uberaba, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

Entamoeba gingivalis is considered an oral commensal but demonstrates a 
pathogenic potential associated with periodontal disease in immunocompromised 
individuals. Therefore, this study evaluated the occurrence, opportunistic 
conditions, and intraspecific genetic variability of E. gingivalis in 
HIV(+)/AIDS patients. Entamoeba gingivalis was studied using fresh examination 
(FE), culture, and PCR from bacterial plaque samples collected from 82 
HIV(+)/AIDS patients. Genetic characterization of the lower ribosomal subunit of 
region 18S (18S-SSU rRNA) was conducted in 9 positive samples using 
low-stringency single specific primer PCR (LSSP-PCR) and sequencing analysis. 
Entamoeba gingivalis was detected in 63.4% (52/82) of the samples. No 
association was detected between the presence of E. gingivalis and the CD4(+) 
lymphocyte count (≤200 cells/mm(3) (p = 0.912) or viral load (p = 0.429). The 
LSSP-PCR results helped group E. gingivalis populations into 2 polymorphic 
groups (68.3% similarity): group I, associated with 63.6% (7/11) of the samples, 
and group II, associated with 36.4% (4/11) of the samples, which shared 74% and 
83.7% similarity and association with C and E isolates from HIV(-) individuals, 
respectively. Sequencing of 4 samples demonstrated 99% identity with the 
reference strain ATCC 30927 and also showed 2 divergent clusters, similar to 
those detected by LSSP-PCR. Opportunistic behavior of E. gingivalis was not 
detected, which may be related to the use of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy by all HIV(+)/AIDS patients. The high occurrence of E. gingivalis in 
these patients can be influenced by multifactorial components not directly 
related to the CD4(+) lymphocyte counts, such as cholesterol and the oral 
microbiota host, which could mask the potential opportunistic ability of E. 
gingivalis. The identification of the 18S SSU-rRNA polymorphism by LSSP-PCR and 
sequencing analysis provides the first evidence of genetic variability in E. 
gingivalis isolated from HIV patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0082864
PMCID: PMC3869735
PMID: 24376598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


130. BMC Genomics. 2015 Oct 23;16:839. doi: 10.1186/s12864-015-2032-0.

The rumen microbial metagenome associated with high methane production in 
cattle.

Wallace RJ(1), Rooke JA(2), McKain N(3), Duthie CA(4), Hyslop JJ(5), Ross DW(6), 
Waterhouse A(7), Watson M(8), Roehe R(9).

Author information:
(1)Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Aberdeen, Bucksburn, 
Aberdeen, AB21 9SB, UK. john.wallace@abdn.ac.uk.
(2)SRUC, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG, UK. John.Rooke@sruc.ac.uk.
(3)Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Aberdeen, Bucksburn, 
Aberdeen, AB21 9SB, UK. n.mckain@abdn.ac.uk.
(4)SRUC, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG, UK. Carol-Anne.Duthie@sruc.ac.uk.
(5)SRUC, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG, UK. Jimmy.Hyslop@sac.co.uk.
(6)SRUC, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG, UK. Dave.Ross@sruc.ac.uk.
(7)SRUC, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG, UK. Tony.Waterhouse@sruc.ac.uk.
(8)Edinburgh Genomics, The Roslin Institute and R(D)SVS, University of 
Edinburgh, Easter Bush, Edinburgh, EH25 9RG, UK. mick.watson@roslin.ed.ac.uk.
(9)SRUC, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JG, UK. rainer.roehe@sruc.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Methane represents 16 % of total anthropogenic greenhouse gas 
emissions. It has been estimated that ruminant livestock produce ca. 29 % of 
this methane. As individual animals produce consistently different quantities of 
methane, understanding the basis for these differences may lead to new 
opportunities for mitigating ruminal methane emissions. Metagenomics is a 
powerful new tool for understanding the composition and function of complex 
microbial communities. Here we have applied metagenomics to the rumen microbial 
community to identify differences in the microbiota and metagenome that lead to 
high- and low-methane-emitting cattle phenotypes.
METHODS: Four pairs of beef cattle were selected for extreme high and low 
methane emissions from 72 animals, matched for breed (Aberdeen-Angus or Limousin 
cross) and diet (high or medium concentrate). Community analysis was carried out 
by qPCR of 16S and 18S rRNA genes and by alignment of Illumina HiSeq reads to 
the GREENGENES database. Total genomic reads were aligned to the KEGG genes 
databasefor functional analysis.
RESULTS: Deep sequencing produced on average 11.3 Gb per sample. 16S rRNA gene 
abundances indicated that archaea, predominantly Methanobrevibacter, were 2.5× 
more numerous (P = 0.026) in high emitters, whereas among bacteria 
Proteobacteria, predominantly Succinivibrionaceae, were 4-fold less abundant 
(2.7 vs. 11.2 %; P = 0.002). KEGG analysis revealed that archaeal genes leading 
directly or indirectly to methane production were 2.7-fold more abundant in high 
emitters. Genes less abundant in high emitters included acetate kinase, electron 
transport complex proteins RnfC and RnfD and glucose-6-phosphate isomerase. 
Sequence data were assembled de novo and over 1.5 million proteins were 
annotated on the subsequent metagenome scaffolds. Less than half of the 
predicted genes matched matched a domain within Pfam. Amongst 2774 identified 
proteins of the 20 KEGG orthologues that correlated with methane emissions, only 
16 showed 100 % identity with a publicly available protein sequence.
CONCLUSIONS: The abundance of archaeal genes in ruminal digesta correlated 
strongly with differing methane emissions from individual animals, a finding 
useful for genetic screening purposes. Lower emissions were accompanied by 
higher Succinovibrionaceae abundance and changes in acetate and hydrogen 
production leading to less methanogenesis, as similarly postulated for 
Australian macropods. Large numbers of predicted protein sequences differed 
between high- and low-methane-emitting cattle. Ninety-nine percent were unknown, 
indicating a fertile area for future exploitation.

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-015-2032-0
PMCID: PMC4619255
PMID: 26494241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Appl Microbiol. 2014 Jul;117(1):74-84. doi: 10.1111/jam.12518. Epub 2014 Apr 
29.

Microbial community structure during fluoranthene degradation in the presence of 
plants.

Storey S(1), Ashaari MM, McCabe G, Harty M, Dempsey R, Doyle O, Clipson N, Doyle 
EM.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Microbiology Group, School of Biology and Environmental Science 
and Earth Institute, University College Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland.

AIMS: To investigate bacterial and fungal community structure during degradation 
of varying concentrations (0-5000 mg kg(-1) ) of the polycyclic aromatic 
hydrocarbon (PAH) fluoranthene in the presence or absence of tomato plants.
METHOD AND RESULTS: Fluoranthene amended or unamended growing media, with or 
without a plant, were incubated in pots in a glasshouse for 30 days. 
Fluoranthene concentration was quantified using GC-FID, while bacterial and 
fungal community structure was investigated using trflp and arisa, respectively. 
The abundance of two ring hydroxylating dioxygenase genes was measured using 
qPCR. More fluoranthene was degraded in the presence of tomato plants at 500 and 
5000 mg fluoranthene kg(-1) (P < 0·001), and it had a toxic effect on plant 
growth. Bacterial and fungal community composition in the rhizosphere was 
significantly different from that in nonrhizospheric and unplanted samples. The 
influence of fluoranthene on bacterial communities overcame that of the plant 
root such that community composition in rhizosphere and planted nonrhizospheric 
samples was broadly similar when fluoranthene was present. PAH-RHDα-GP genes 
were more abundant than PAH-RHDα-GN genes in all treatments. PAH-RHDα-GN 
abundance was unaffected by either PAH concentration or growing medium type, 
while the abundance of PAH-RHDα-GP was greatest in the rhizosphere.
CONCLUSIONS: Plants promoted microbial growth and diversity and led to increases 
in abundance of Gram-positive dioxygenase genes, correlated with increased 
degradation of fluoranthene.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This work contributes to knowledge in the 
broad area of biodegradation and also provides useful information for the design 
of future bioremediation strategies.

© 2014 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.12518
PMID: 24712542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Microbiologyopen. 2020 Feb;9(2):e965. doi: 10.1002/mbo3.965. Epub 2019 Dec 5.

Characterization and discrimination of microbial community and co-occurrence 
patterns in fresh and strong flavor style flue-cured tobacco leaves.

Zhang Q(1)(2), Geng Z(1), Li D(1), Ding Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Technical Research Center, China Tobacco Sichuan Industrial Co., Ltd., 
Chengdu, China.
(2)National Engineering Laboratory for Cereal Fermentation Technology, School of 
Biotechnology, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, China.

Fermentation, also known as aging, is vital for enhancing the quality of 
flue-cured tobacco leaves (FTLs). Aged FTLs demonstrate high-quality sensory 
characteristics, while unaged FTLs do not. Microbes play important roles in the 
FTL fermentation process. However, the eukaryotic microbial community diversity 
is poorly understood, as are microbial associations within FTLs. We aimed to 
characterize and compare the microbiota associated with two important 
categories, fresh and strong flavor style FTLs, and to reveal correlations 
between the microbial taxa within them. Based on 16S and 18S rRNA Illumina MiSeq 
sequencing, the community richness and diversity of prokaryotes were almost as 
high as that of eukaryotes. The dominant microbes of FTLs belonged to seven 
genera, including Pseudomonas, Bacillus, Methylobacterium, Acinetobacter, 
Sphingomonas, Neophaeosphaeria, and Cladosporium, of the Proteobacteria, 
Firmicutes, and Ascomycota phyla. According to partial least square discriminant 
analysis (PLS-DA), Xanthomonas, Franconibacter, Massilia, Quadrisphaera, 
Staphylococcus, Cladosporium, Lodderomyces, Symmetrospora, Golovinomyces, and 
Dioszegia were significantly positively correlated with fresh flavor style FTLs, 
while Xenophilus, Fusarium, unclassified Ustilaginaceae, Tilletiopsis, 
Cryphonectria, Colletotrichum, and Cyanodermella were significantly positively 
correlated with strong flavor style FTLs. Network analysis identified seven 
hubs, Aureimonas, Kocuria, Massilia, Brachybacterium, Clostridium, Dietzia, and 
Vishniacozyma, that may play important roles in FTL ecosystem stability, which 
may be destroyed by Myrmecridium. FTL microbiota was found to be correlated with 
flavor style. Species present in lower numbers than the dominant microbes might 
be used as microbial markers to discriminate different flavor style samples and 
to stabilize FTL microbial communities. This research advances our understanding 
of FTL microbiota and describes a means of discriminating between fresh and 
strong flavor FTLs based on their respective stable microbiota.

© 2019 The Authors. MicrobiologyOpen published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mbo3.965
PMCID: PMC7002102
PMID: 31808296

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


133. BMC Microbiol. 2012 Nov 8;12:255. doi: 10.1186/1471-2180-12-255.

FungiQuant: a broad-coverage fungal quantitative real-time PCR assay.

Liu CM(1), Kachur S, Dwan MG, Abraham AG, Aziz M, Hsueh PR, Huang YT, Busch JD, 
Lamit LJ, Gehring CA, Keim P, Price LB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathogen Genomics, Translational Genomics Research Institute, 
Flagstaff, AZ 86011, USA. cindy.liu@nau.edu

BACKGROUND: Fungal load quantification is a critical component of fungal 
community analyses. Limitation of current approaches for quantifying the fungal 
component in the human microbiome suggests the need for new broad-coverage 
techniques.
METHODS: We analyzed 2,085 18S rRNA gene sequences from the SILVA database for 
assay design. We generated and quantified plasmid standards using a qPCR-based 
approach. We evaluated assay coverage against 4,968 sequences and performed 
assay validation following the Minimum Information for Publication of 
Quantitative Real-Time PCR Experiments (MIQE) guidelines.
RESULTS: We designed FungiQuant, a TaqMan® qPCR assay targeting a 351 bp region 
in the fungal 18S rRNA gene. Our in silico analysis showed that FungiQuant is a 
perfect sequence match to 90.0% of the 2,617 fungal species analyzed. We showed 
that FungiQuant's is 100% sensitive and its amplification efficiencies ranged 
from 76.3% to 114.5%, with r(2)-values of >0.99 against the 69 fungal species 
tested. Additionally, FungiQuant inter- and intra-run coefficients of variance 
ranged from <10% and <20%, respectively. We further showed that FungiQuant has a 
limit of quantification 25 copies and a limit of detection at 5 copies. Lastly, 
by comparing results from human-only background DNA with low-level fungal DNA, 
we showed that amplification in two or three of a FungiQuant performed in 
triplicate is statistically significant for true positive fungal detection.
CONCLUSIONS: FungiQuant has comprehensive coverage against diverse fungi and is 
a robust quantification and detection tool for delineating between true fungal 
detection and non-target human DNA.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2180-12-255
PMCID: PMC3565980
PMID: 23136846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Parasitol Res. 2018 Apr;117(4):1277-1284. doi: 10.1007/s00436-018-5798-6. Epub 
2018 Feb 10.

A new subtype of Entamoeba gingivalis: "E. gingivalis ST2, kamaktli variant".

García G(1), Ramos F(2), Martínez-Hernández F(3), Hernández L(2), Yáñez J(4), 
Gaytán P(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Microbiología y Parasitología, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Av. Universidad 3000, Cd. Universitaria 
Coyoacán, CP.04510, Ciudad de México, Mexico. garciap@unam.mx.
(2)Departamento de Microbiología y Parasitología, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, Av. Universidad 3000, Cd. Universitaria 
Coyoacán, CP.04510, Ciudad de México, Mexico.
(3)Departamento de Ecología de Agentes Patógenos, Hospital General Dr. Manuel 
Gea González, Calzada de Tlalpan 4800, Tlalpan, CP.14080, Ciudad de México, 
Mexico.
(4)Unidad de Síntesis y Secuenciación de DNA, Instituto de Biotecnología, UNAM, 
Av. Universidad 2001, CP.14000, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.

Entamoeba gingivalis is a protozoan that resides in the oral cavity. Using 
molecular biology techniques, we identified a novel organism that shares the 
same ecological niche as E. gingivalis. To differentiate this organism from E. 
gingivalis, we named it "kamaktli variant." By sequencing the 18S-ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 
rRNA region, we demonstrated that kamaktli variant is 89% identical to E. 
gingivalis. To elucidate the relationship between kamaktli variant and E. 
gingivalis, we performed a phylogenetic analysis. Both taxa clustered in the 
same clade with high support, indicating that the amoebas are closely related 
(98/99/1.00, maximum parsimony/maximum likelihood/MrBayes, respectively). Given 
this information, we propose that these molecular differences between kamaktli 
variant and E. gingivalis ST1 are sufficient to distinguish them as independent 
subtypes, and we name the new subtype "E. gingivalis ST2, kamaktli variant."

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-018-5798-6
PMCID: PMC5978907
PMID: 29429011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The Ethics and Scientific research committees of 
the Medicine School of the University of Mexico (UNAM) approved the protocol for 
this study (projects 042-2011, 151/2014 and 008/2016)


135. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 21;9(3):e92405. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092405. 
eCollection 2014.

Community structure and activity of a highly dynamic and nutrient-limited 
hypersaline microbial mat in Um Alhool Sabkha, Qatar.

Al-Thani R(1), Al-Najjar MA(2), Al-Raei AM(2), Ferdelman T(2), Thang NM(2), Al 
Shaikh I(3), Al-Ansi M(3), de Beer D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Qatar University, Doha, 
Qatar.
(2)Max-Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology, Bremen, Germany.
(3)Environmental Studies Center, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.

The Um Alhool area in Qatar is a dynamic evaporative ecosystem that receives 
seawater from below as it is surrounded by sand dunes. We investigated the 
chemical composition, the microbial activity and biodiversity of the four main 
layers (L1-L4) in the photosynthetic mats. Chlorophyll a (Chl a) concentration 
and distribution (measured by HPLC and hyperspectral imaging, respectively), the 
phycocyanin distribution (scanned with hyperspectral imaging), oxygenic 
photosynthesis (determined by microsensor), and the abundance of photosynthetic 
microorganisms (from 16S and 18S rRNA sequencing) decreased with depth in the 
euphotic layer (L1). Incident irradiance exponentially attenuated in the same 
zone reaching 1% at 1.7-mm depth. Proteobacteria dominated all layers of the mat 
(24%-42% of the identified bacteria). Anoxygenic photosynthetic bacteria 
(dominated by Chloroflexus) were most abundant in the third red layer of the mat 
(L3), evidenced by the spectral signature of Bacteriochlorophyll as well as by 
sequencing. The deep, black layer (L4) was dominated by sulfate reducing 
bacteria belonging to the Deltaproteobacteria, which were responsible for high 
sulfate reduction rates (measured using 35S tracer). Members of Halobacteria 
were the dominant Archaea in all layers of the mat (92%-97%), whereas Nematodes 
were the main Eukaryotes (up to 87%). Primary productivity rates of Um Alhool 
mat were similar to those of other hypersaline microbial mats. However, sulfate 
reduction rates were relatively low, indicating that oxygenic respiration 
contributes more to organic material degradation than sulfate reduction, because 
of bioturbation. Although Um Alhool hypersaline mat is a nutrient-limited 
ecosystem, it is interestingly dynamic and phylogenetically highly diverse. All 
its components work in a highly efficient and synchronized way to compensate for 
the lack of nutrient supply provided during regular inundation periods.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092405
PMCID: PMC3962408
PMID: 24658360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


136. Sex Transm Dis. 2012 Oct;39(10):807-12. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3182631c79.

Association between Trichomonas vaginalis and vaginal bacterial community 
composition among reproductive-age women.

Brotman RM(1), Bradford LL, Conrad M, Gajer P, Ault K, Peralta L, Forney LJ, 
Carlton JM, Abdo Z, Ravel J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Institute for Genome Sciences, 
University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. 
rbrotman@som.umaryland.edu

OBJECTIVES: Some vaginal bacterial communities are thought to prevent infection 
by sexually transmitted organisms. Prior work demonstrated that the vaginal 
microbiota of reproductive-age women cluster into 5 types of bacterial 
communities; 4 dominated by Lactobacillus species (L. iners, L. crispatus, L. 
gasseri, L. jensenii) and 1 (termed community state type (CST) IV) lacking 
significant numbers of lactobacilli and characterized by higher proportions of 
Atopobium, Prevotella, Parvimonas, Sneathia, Gardnerella, Mobiluncus, and other 
taxa. We sought to evaluate the relationship between vaginal bacterial 
composition and Trichomonas vaginalis.
METHODS: Self-collected vaginal swabs were obtained cross-sectionally from 394 
women equally representing 4 ethnic/racial groups. T. vaginalis screening was 
performed using PCR targeting the 18S rRNA and β-tubulin genes. Vaginal 
bacterial composition was characterized by pyrosequencing of barcoded 16S rRNA 
genes. A panel of 11 microsatellite markers was used to genotype T. vaginalis. 
The association between vaginal microbiota and T. vaginalis was evaluated by 
exact logistic regression.
RESULTS: T. vaginalis was detected in 2.8% of participants (11/394). Of the 11 
T. vaginalis-positive cases, 8 (72%) were categorized as CST-IV, 2 (18%) as 
communities dominated by L. iners, and 1 (9%) as L. crispatus-dominated (P = 
0.05). CST-IV microbiota were associated with an 8-fold increased odds of 
detecting T. vaginalis compared with women in the L. crispatus-dominated state 
(OR: 8.26, 95% CI: 1.07-372.65). Seven of the 11 T. vaginalis isolates were 
assigned to 2 genotypes.
CONCLUSION: T. vaginalis was associated with vaginal microbiota consisting of 
low proportions of lactobacilli and high proportions of Mycoplasma, Parvimonas, 
Sneathia, and other anaerobes.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3182631c79
PMCID: PMC3458234
PMID: 23007708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors report no conflict of 
interest.


137. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2012 May;80(2):390-401. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01305.x. Epub 2012 Feb 2.

Community structure of bacteria and fungi in aerosols of a pig confinement 
building.

Kristiansen A(1), Saunders AM, Hansen AA, Nielsen PH, Nielsen JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Aalborg 
University, Aalborg, Denmark.

Modern intensive husbandry practices can create poor indoor air quality, with 
high levels of airborne dust, endotoxins, ammonia, and microorganisms. Air in a 
sow breeding barn was investigated to determine the biomass composition of 
bioaerosols using molecular methods supplemented with microscopic and 
cultivation-dependent approaches. A total of 2.7 ± 0.7 × 10(7)  bacterial 
cells m(-3) air and 1.2 ± 0.3 × 10(6)  fungi spores m(-3) were detected, 
corresponding to the fungal biovolume constituted 98% of the total microbial 
biovolume (fungal and bacterial). Fifty-two percent of all 
4',6-diamidino-2-phenyl indole-stained cells were detectable with fluorescence 
in situ hybridization (FISH) with a general bacterial probe mixture. 
Quantitative FISH of the bacterial consortium revealed Firmicutes as the 
dominant group with Streptococcus as the major genus, while Actinobacteria 
constituted 10% of the detectable bacteria. Additionally, the study revealed an 
abundant and diverse fungal community including species not previously found in 
similar environments. The most abundant fungal 18S rRNA gene clone sequences 
identified affiliated with the Aspergillus-Eurotium cluster, but among others, 
species of Wallemia, Mucorales, and Russulales were detected. For both fungi and 
anaerobic bacteria, a hitherto undescribed diversity was found in bioaerosols 
from a modern sow breeding barn, which potentially could create poor indoor air 
quality, although their effect on the health of farmworkers and stock still is 
not resolved.

© 2012 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by Blackwell 
Publishing Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6941.2012.01305.x
PMID: 22242889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 27;9(6):e100740. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100740. 
eCollection 2014.

Selecting microbial strains from pine tree resin: biotechnological applications 
from a terpene world.

Vilanova C(1), Marín M(1), Baixeras J(1), Latorre A(2), Porcar M(3).

Author information:
(1)Universitat de València (Cavanilles Institute of Biodiversity and Evolutive 
Biology), Valencia, Spain.
(2)Universitat de València (Cavanilles Institute of Biodiversity and Evolutive 
Biology), Valencia, Spain; Unidad Mixta de Investigación en Genómica y Salud, 
Centro Superior de Investigación en Salud Pública (CSISP), València, Spain.
(3)Universitat de València (Cavanilles Institute of Biodiversity and Evolutive 
Biology), Valencia, Spain; Fundació General de la Universitat de València, 
València, Spain.

Resin is a chemical and physical defensive barrier secreted by many plants, 
especially coniferous trees, with insecticidal and antimicrobial properties. The 
degradation of terpenes, the main components accounting for the toxicity of 
resin, is highly relevant for a vast range of biotechnological processes, 
including bioremediation. In the present work, we used a resin-based selective 
medium in order to study the resin-tolerant microbial communities associated 
with the galls formed by the moth Retinia resinella; as well as resin from Pinus 
sylvestris forests, one of the largest ecosystems on Earth and a yet-unexplored 
source of terpene-degrading microorganisms. The taxonomic and functional 
diversity of the cultivated, resin-tolerant fraction of the whole microbiota 
were unveiled by high-throughput sequencing, which resulted in the detection of 
more than 40 bacterial genera among the terpene-degrading microorganisms, and a 
range of genes involved in the degradation of different terpene families. We 
further characterized through culture-based approaches and transcriptome 
sequencing selected microbial strains, including Pseudomonas sp., the most 
abundant species in both environmental resin and R. resinella resin-rich galls, 
and three fungal species, and experimentally confirmed their ability to degrade 
resin and also other terpene-based compounds and, thus, their potential use in 
biotechnological applications involving terpene catabolism.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100740
PMCID: PMC4074100
PMID: 24971580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Strain PS, deposited in the 
Spanish Type Culture Collection (CECT) under reference number CECT 8327, has 
been found by the authors to hold not only for scientific publication, but also 
for patenting (Application number P201300612 at Spanish Office of Patents and 
Trademarks, OEPM). The authors have prepared the patent and the registration in 
collaboration with the Research Transfer Office (OTRI) of the University of 
Valencia (contact person, Silvia Bort: silvia.bort@uv.es). This does not alter 
the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


139. J Appl Microbiol. 2007 Jun;102(6):1654-64. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2006.03185.x.

Microbial diversity of intestinal contents and mucus in rainbow trout 
(Oncorhynchus mykiss).

Kim DH(1), Brunt J, Austin B.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh, UK.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to understand the microbial community of 
intestinal contents and mucosal layer in the intestine of rainbow trout by means 
of culture-dependent conventional and independent molecular techniques.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Forty-one culturable microbial phylotypes, and 39 sequences 
from 16S rRNA and two from 18S rRNA genes, were retrieved. Aeromonadaceae, 
Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonadaceae representatives were the dominant 
cultured bacteria. Genomic DNA isolated from intestinal contents and mucus was 
used to generate 104 random clones, which were grouped into 32 phylotypes at 99% 
minimum similarity, most of which were affiliated with Proteobacteria (>70% of 
the total). However, unlike library C (intestinal contents), the phyla 
Bacteroidetes and Fusobacteria were not found in intestinal mucus (library M), 
indicating that the microbiota in the gut mucus was different from that of the 
intestinal contents. Twelve sequences were retrieved from denaturing gradient 
gel electrophoresis analysis, and dominant bands were mostly related to 
Clostridium.
CONCLUSIONS: Many novel sequences that have not been previously recognized as 
part of the intestinal flora of rainbow trout were retrieved.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The fish gut harbours a larger bacterial 
diversity than previously recognized, and the diversity of gut mucus is 
different from that of intestinal contents.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2006.03185.x
PMID: 17578431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. PLoS One. 2012;7(7):e40888. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040888. Epub 2012 Jul 13.

Molecular detection of eukaryotes in a single human stool sample from Senegal.

Hamad I(1), Sokhna C, Raoult D, Bittar F.

Author information:
(1)URMITE UMR-IRD 198, IHU Méditerranée Infection, Aix-Marseille Université, 
Marseille, France.

BACKGROUND: Microbial eukaryotes represent an important component of the human 
gut microbiome, with different beneficial or harmful roles; some species are 
commensal or mutualistic, whereas others are opportunistic or parasitic. The 
diversity of eukaryotes inhabiting humans remains relatively unexplored because 
of either the low abundance of these organisms in human gut or because they have 
received limited attention from a whole-community perspective.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDING: In this study, a single fecal sample from a 
healthy African male was studied using both culture-dependent methods and 
extended molecular methods targeting the 18S rRNA and ITS sequences. Our results 
revealed that very few fungi, including Candida spp., Galactomyces spp., and 
Trichosporon asahii, could be isolated using culture-based methods. In contrast, 
a relatively a high number of eukaryotic species could be identified in this 
fecal sample when culture-independent methods based on various primer sets were 
used. A total of 27 species from one sample were found among the 977 analyzed 
clones. The clone libraries were dominated by fungi (716 clones/977, 73.3%), 
corresponding to 16 different species. In addition, 187 sequences out of 977 
(19.2%) corresponded to 9 different species of plants; 59 sequences (6%) 
belonged to other micro-eukaryotes in the gut, including Entamoeba hartmanni and 
Blastocystis sp; and only 15 clones/977 (1.5%) were related to human 18S rRNA 
sequences.
CONCLUSION: Our results revealed a complex eukaryotic community in the 
volunteer's gut, with fungi being the most abundant species in the stool sample. 
Larger investigations are needed to assess the generality of these results and 
to understand their roles in human health and disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0040888
PMCID: PMC3396631
PMID: 22808282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


141. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Jan;81(1):396-404. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02303-14. Epub 
2014 Oct 31.

Intra- and interindividual variations mask interspecies variation in the 
microbiota of sympatric peromyscus populations.

Baxter NT(1), Wan JJ(2), Schubert AM(1), Jenior ML(1), Myers P(2), Schloss 
PD(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA pschloss@umich.edu.

Using populations of two sympatric Peromyscus species, we characterized the 
importance of the host species, physiology, environment, diet, and other factors 
in shaping the structure and dynamics of their gut microbiota. We performed a 
capture-mark-release experiment in which we obtained 16S rRNA gene sequence data 
from 49 animals at multiple time points. In addition, we performed 18S rRNA gene 
sequencing of the same samples to characterize the diet of each individual. Our 
analysis could not distinguish between the two species of Peromyscus on the 
basis of the structures of their microbiotas. However, we did observe a set of 
bacterial populations that were found in every animal. Most notable were 
abundant representatives of the genera Lactobacillus and Helicobacter. When we 
combined the 16S and 18S rRNA gene sequence analyses, we were unable to 
distinguish the communities on the basis of the animal's diet. Furthermore, 
there were no discernible differences in the structure of the gut communities 
based on the capture site or their developmental or physiological status. 
Finally, in contrast to humans, where each individual has a unique microbiota 
when sampled over years, among the animals captured in this study, the 
uniqueness of each microbiota was lost within a week of the original sampling. 
Wild populations provide an opportunity to study host-microbiota interactions as 
they originally evolved, and the ability to perform natural experiments will 
facilitate a greater understanding of the factors that shape the structure and 
function of the gut microbiota.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02303-14
PMCID: PMC4272734
PMID: 25362056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. ISME J. 2014 Jan;8(1):63-76. doi: 10.1038/ismej.2013.138. Epub 2013 Aug 29.

Host-specific adaptation governs the interaction of the marine diatom, 
Pseudo-nitzschia and their microbiota.

Sison-Mangus MP(1), Jiang S(2), Tran KN(2), Kudela RM(3).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, 716E Engineering Tower, 
Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, 
CA, USA [2] Department of Ocean Sciences and Institute for Marine Sciences, 
University of California, Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, 716E Engineering Tower, 
Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, 
CA, USA.
(3)Department of Ocean Sciences and Institute for Marine Sciences, University of 
California, Santa Cruz, 1156 High Street, Santa Cruz, CA, USA.

The association of phytoplankton with bacteria is ubiquitous in nature and the 
bacteria that associate with different phytoplankton species are very diverse. 
The influence of these bacteria in the physiology and ecology of the host and 
the evolutionary forces that shape the relationship are still not understood. In 
this study, we used the Pseudo-nitzschia-microbiota association to determine (1) 
if algal species with distinct domoic acid (DA) production are selection factors 
that structures the bacterial community, (2) if host-specificity and 
co-adaptation govern the association, (3) the functional roles of isolated 
member of microbiota on diatom-hosts fitness and (4) the influence of microbiota 
in changing the phenotype of the diatom hosts with regards to toxin production. 
Analysis of the pyrosequencing-derived 16S rDNA data suggests that the three 
tested species of Pseudo-nitzschia, which vary in toxin production, have 
phylogenetically distinct bacterial communities, and toxic Pseudo-nitzschia have 
lower microbial diversity than non-toxic Pseudo-nitzschia. Transplant 
experiments showed that isolated members of the microbiota are mutualistic to 
their native hosts but some are commensal or parasitic to foreign hosts, hinting 
at co-evolution between partners. Moreover, Pseudo-nitzschia host can gain 
protection from algalytic bacteria by maintaining association with its 
microbiota. Pseudo-nitzschia also exhibit different phenotypic expression with 
regards to DA production, and this depends on the bacterial species with which 
the host associates. Hence, the influences of the microbiota on diatom host 
physiology should be considered when studying the biology and ecology of marine 
diatoms.

DOI: 10.1038/ismej.2013.138
PMCID: PMC3869016
PMID: 23985747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. ISME J. 2020 Feb;14(2):609-622. doi: 10.1038/s41396-019-0551-4. Epub 2019 Nov 
12.

Biodiversity of protists and nematodes in the wild nonhuman primate gut.

Mann AE(1)(2), Mazel F(3), Lemay MA(3), Morien E(3), Billy V(3), Kowalewski 
M(4), Di Fiore A(5), Link A(6), Goldberg TL(7), Tecot S(8), Baden AL(9), Gomez 
A(10), Sauther ML(11), Cuozzo FP(12), Rice GAO(13), Dominy NJ(13), Stumpf R(14), 
Lewis RJ(5), Swedell L(15)(16), Amato K(17), Wegener Parfrey L(18)(19).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. allison.e.mann@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Immunology, and Genetics, University of North 
Texas, 3500 Camp Bowie Blvd, Fort Worth, TX, 76107, USA. 
allison.e.mann@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(4)Estacion Biologica Corrientes (MACN-BR)-CONICET, Corrientes, Argentina.
(5)Department of Anthropology, University of Texas Austin, Austin, TX, USA.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Universidad de los Andes, Bogota, 
Colombia.
(7)Department of Pathobiological Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Madison, WI, USA.
(8)School of Anthropology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA.
(9)Department of Anthropology, Hunter College of City University of New York, 
New York, NY, USA.
(10)Department of Animal Science, University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN, USA.
(11)Department of Anthropology, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, CO, 
USA.
(12)Lajuma Research Centre, Louis Trichardt (Makhado), Lajuma, South Africa.
(13)Department of Anthropology, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, USA.
(14)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 
Urbana, IL, USA.
(15)Department of Anthropology, Queens College, City University of New York, 
Flushing, New York, NY, USA.
(16)Department of Archaeology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(17)Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA.
(18)Department of Botany and Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. LWParfrey@botany.ubc.ca.
(19)Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada. LWParfrey@botany.ubc.ca.

Documenting the natural diversity of eukaryotic organisms in the nonhuman 
primate (NHP) gut is important for understanding the evolution of the mammalian 
gut microbiome, its role in digestion, health and disease, and the consequences 
of anthropogenic change on primate biology and conservation. Despite the 
ecological significance of gut-associated eukaryotes, little is known about the 
factors that influence their assembly and diversity in mammals. In this study, 
we used an 18S rRNA gene fragment metabarcoding approach to assess the 
eukaryotic assemblage of 62 individuals representing 16 NHP species. We find 
that cercopithecoids, and especially the cercopithecines, have substantially 
higher alpha diversity than other NHP groups. Gut-associated protists and 
nematodes are widespread among NHPs, consistent with their ancient association 
with NHP hosts. However, we do not find a consistent signal of phylosymbiosis or 
host-species specificity. Rather, gut eukaryotes are only weakly structured by 
primate phylogeny with minimal signal from diet, in contrast to previous reports 
of NHP gut bacteria. The results of this study indicate that gut-associated 
eukaryotes offer different information than gut-associated bacteria and add to 
our understanding of the structure of the gut microbiome.

DOI: 10.1038/s41396-019-0551-4
PMCID: PMC6976604
PMID: 31719654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


144. Front Microbiol. 2020 May 20;11:980. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00980. eCollection 
2020.

Comparison of Bacterial and Fungal Composition and Their Chemical Interaction in 
Free Tropospheric Air and Snow Over an Entire Winter Season at Mount Sonnblick, 
Austria.

Els N(1), Greilinger M(2)(3), Reisecker M(4), Tignat-Perrier R(5), 
Baumann-Stanzer K(3), Kasper-Giebl A(2), Sattler B(1), Larose C(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ecology, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Institute of Chemical Technologies and Analytics, Vienna University of 
Technology, Vienna, Austria.
(3)Zentralanstalt für Meteorologie und Geodynamik (ZAMG), Vienna, Austria.
(4)Avalanche Warning Service Tyrol, Department of Civil Protection, Federal 
State Government of Tyrol, Innsbruck, Austria.
(5)Environmental Microbial Genomics Group, Laboratoire Ampère, École Centrale de 
Lyon, Écully, France.

We investigated the interactions of air and snow over one entire winter 
accumulation period as well as the importance of chemical markers in a pristine 
free-tropospheric environment to explain variation in a microbiological dataset. 
To overcome the limitations of short term bioaerosol sampling, we sampled the 
atmosphere continuously onto quartzfiber air filters using a DIGITEL high volume 
PM10 sampler. The bacterial and fungal communities, sequenced using Illumina 
MiSeq, as well as the chemical components of the atmosphere were compared to 
those of a late season snow profile. Results reveal strong dynamics in the 
composition of bacterial and fungal communities in air and snow. In fall the two 
compartments were similar, suggesting a strong interaction between them. The 
overlap diminished as the season progressed due to an evolution within the 
snowpack throughout winter and spring. Certain bacterial and fungal genera were 
only detected in air samples, which implies that a distinct air microbiome might 
exist. These organisms are likely not incorporated in clouds and thus not 
precipitated or scavenged in snow. Although snow appears to be seeded by the 
atmosphere, both air and snow showed differing bacterial and fungal communities 
and chemical composition. Season and alpha diversity were major drivers for 
microbial variability in snow and air, and only a few chemical markers were 
identified as important in explaining microbial diversity. Air microbial 
community variation was more related to chemical markers than snow microbial 
composition. For air microbial communities Cl-, TC/OC, SO4 2-, Mg2+, and Fe/Al, 
all compounds related to dust or anthropogenic activities, were identified as 
related to bacterial variability while dust related Ca2+ was significant in 
snow. The only common driver for snow and air was SO4 2-, a tracer for 
anthropogenic sources. The occurrence of chemical compounds was coupled with 
boundary layer injections in the free troposphere (FT). Boundary layer 
injections also caused the observed variations in community composition and 
chemistry between the two compartments. Long-term monitoring is required for a 
more valid insight in post-depositional selection in snow.

Copyright © 2020 Els, Greilinger, Reisecker, Tignat-Perrier, Baumann-Stanzer, 
Kasper-Giebl, Sattler and Larose.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00980
PMCID: PMC7251065
PMID: 32508790


145. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2014 Dec;90(3):935-45. doi: 10.1111/1574-6941.12446. Epub 
2014 Nov 12.

Pezizomycotina dominates the fungal communities of South China Sea sponges 
Theonella swinhoei and Xestospongia testudinaria.

Jin L(1), Liu F, Sun W, Zhang F, Karuppiah V, Li Z.

Author information:
(1)Marine Biotechnology Laboratory, State Key Laboratory of Microbial Metabolism 
and School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai, China.

Compared with the knowledge of sponge-associated bacterial diversity and 
ecological roles, the fungal diversity and ecological roles of sponges remain 
largely unknown. In this study, the fungal diversity and protein synthesis 
potential in two South China Sea sponges Theonella swinhoei and Xestospongia 
testudinaria were investigated by rRNA vs. rRNA gene analysis. EF4/fung5 was 
chosen after a series of PCR tests to target fungal 18S rRNA and 18S rRNA gene. 
Altogether, 283 high-quality sequences were obtained, which resulted in 26 
Operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that were assigned to Ascomycota, 
Basidiomycota, and Blastocladiomycota. At subphylum level, 77.3% of 
sponge-derived sequences were affiliated with Pezizomycotina. The fungal 
compositions of T. swinhoei and X. testudinaria were different from that of 
ambient seawater. The predominant OTU shared between two sponges was rare in 
seawater, whereas the most abundant OTUs in seawater were not found in sponges. 
Additionally, the major OTUs of sponge cDNA datasets were shared in two sponges. 
The fungal diversity illustrated by sponge cDNA datasets correlated well with 
that derived from sponge DNA datasets, indicating that the major members of 
sponge-associated fungi had protein synthesis potential. This study highlighted 
the diversity of Pezizomycotina in marine sponge-fungi symbioses and the 
necessity of investigating ecological roles of sponge-associated fungi.

© 2014 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1574-6941.12446
PMID: 25348120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. ISME J. 2016 Apr;10(4):934-44. doi: 10.1038/ismej.2015.168. Epub 2015 Nov 13.

Inhibitory bacteria reduce fungi on early life stages of endangered Colorado 
boreal toads (Anaxyrus boreas).

Kueneman JG(1), Woodhams DC(1), Van Treuren W(2), Archer HM(1), Knight R(2), 
McKenzie VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado, 
Boulder, CO, USA.
(2)BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO, USA.

Increasingly, host-associated microbiota are recognized to mediate pathogen 
establishment, providing new ecological perspectives on health and disease. 
Amphibian skin-associated microbiota interact with the fungal pathogen, 
Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), but little is known about microbial 
turnover during host development and associations with host immune function. We 
surveyed skin microbiota of Colorado's endangered boreal toads (Anaxyrus 
boreas), sampling 181 toads across four life stages (tadpoles, metamorphs, 
subadults and adults). Our goals were to (1) understand variation in microbial 
community structure among individuals and sites, (2) characterize shifts in 
communities during development and (3) examine the prevalence and abundance of 
known Bd-inhibitory bacteria. We used high-throughput 16S and 18S rRNA gene 
sequencing (Illumina MiSeq) to characterize bacteria and microeukaryotes, 
respectively. Life stage had the largest effect on the toad skin microbial 
community, and site and Bd presence also contributed. Proteobacteria dominated 
tadpole microbial communities, but were later replaced by Actinobacteria. 
Microeukaryotes on tadpoles were dominated by the classes Alveolata and 
Stramenopiles, while fungal groups replaced these groups after metamorphosis. 
Using a novel database of Bd-inhibitory bacteria, we found fewer Bd-inhibitory 
bacteria in post-metamorphic stages correlated with increased skin fungi, 
suggesting that bacteria have a strong role in early developmental stages and 
reduce skin-associated fungi.

DOI: 10.1038/ismej.2015.168
PMCID: PMC4796932
PMID: 26565725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 7;9(4):e94236. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094236. eCollection 
2014.

Microbial ecology of Thailand tsunami and non-tsunami affected terrestrials.

Somboonna N(1), Wilantho A(2), Jankaew K(3), Assawamakin A(4), Sangsrakru D(2), 
Tangphatsornruang S(2), Tongsima S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Genome Institute, National Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, 
Pathumthani, Thailand.
(3)Department of Geology, Faculty of Science, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, 
Thailand.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand.

The effects of tsunamis on microbial ecologies have been ill-defined, especially 
in Phang Nga province, Thailand. This ecosystem was catastrophically impacted by 
the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami as well as the 600 year-old tsunami in Phra Thong 
island, Phang Nga province. No study has been conducted to elucidate their 
effects on microbial ecology. This study represents the first to elucidate their 
effects on microbial ecology. We utilized metagenomics with 16S and 18S 
rDNA-barcoded pyrosequencing to obtain prokaryotic and eukaryotic profiles for 
this terrestrial site, tsunami affected (S1), as well as a parallel unaffected 
terrestrial site, non-tsunami affected (S2). S1 demonstrated unique microbial 
community patterns than S2. The dendrogram constructed using the prokaryotic 
profiles supported the unique S1 microbial communities. S1 contained more 
proportions of archaea and bacteria domains, specifically species belonging to 
Bacteroidetes became more frequent, in replacing of the other typical floras 
like Proteobacteria, Acidobacteria and Basidiomycota. Pathogenic microbes, 
including Acinetobacter haemolyticus, Flavobacterium spp. and Photobacterium 
spp., were also found frequently in S1. Furthermore, different metabolic 
potentials highlighted this microbial community change could impact the 
functional ecology of the site. Moreover, the habitat prediction based on 
percent of species indicators for marine, brackish, freshwater and terrestrial 
niches pointed the S1 to largely comprise marine habitat indicating-species.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094236
PMCID: PMC3978030
PMID: 24710002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors received 
funding from Thai Aviation Refuelling Co., Ltd. This does not alter the authors' 
adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


148. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 18;8(7):e69973. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069973. Print 
2013.

Tracking fungal community responses to maize plants by DNA- and RNA-based 
pyrosequencing.

Kuramae EE(1), Verbruggen E, Hillekens R, de Hollander M, Röling WF, van der 
Heijden MG, Kowalchuk GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbial Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology 
(NIOO-KNAW), Wageningen, The Netherlands. e.kuramae@nioo.knaw.nl

We assessed soil fungal diversity and community structure at two sampling times 
(t1 = 47 days and t2 = 104 days of plant age) in pots associated with four maize 
cultivars, including two genetically modified (GM) cultivars by high-throughput 
pyrosequencing of the 18S rRNA gene using DNA and RNA templates. We detected no 
significant differences in soil fungal diversity and community structure 
associated with different plant cultivars. However, DNA-based analyses yielded 
lower fungal OTU richness as compared to RNA-based analyses. Clear differences 
in fungal community structure were also observed in relation to sampling time 
and the nucleic acid pool targeted (DNA versus RNA). The most abundant soil 
fungi, as recovered by DNA-based methods, did not necessary represent the most 
"active" fungi (as recovered via RNA). Interestingly, RNA-derived community 
compositions at t1 were highly similar to DNA-derived communities at t2, based 
on presence/absence measures of OTUs. We recovered large proportions of fungal 
sequences belonging to arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi and Basidiomycota, 
especially at the RNA level, suggesting that these important and potentially 
beneficial fungi are not affected by the plant cultivars nor by GM traits (Bt 
toxin production). Our results suggest that even though DNA- and RNA-derived 
soil fungal communities can be very different at a given time, RNA composition 
may have a predictive power of fungal community development through time.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069973
PMCID: PMC3715498
PMID: 23875012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


149. Sci Rep. 2017 Sep 12;7(1):11314. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-11546-w.

Subtle shifts in microbial communities occur alongside the release of carbon 
induced by drought and rewetting in contrasting peatland ecosystems.

Potter C(1), Freeman C(1), Golyshin PN(1), Ackermann G(2), Fenner N(1), McDonald 
JE(1), Ehbair A(1)(3), Jones TG(1), Murphy LM(3), Creer S(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Bangor University, Gwynedd, Wales, UK.
(2)BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, USA.
(3)School of Chemistry, Bangor University, Gwynedd, Wales, UK.
(4)School of Biological Sciences, Bangor University, Gwynedd, Wales, UK. 
s.creer@bangor.ac.uk.

Peat represents a globally significant pool of sequestered carbon. However, 
peatland carbon stocks are highly threatened by anthropogenic climate change, 
including drought, which leads to a large release of carbon dioxide. Although 
the enzymatic mechanisms underlying drought-driven carbon release are well 
documented, the effect of drought on peatland microbial communities has been 
little studied. Here, we carried out a replicated and controlled drought 
manipulation using intact peat 'mesocosm cores' taken from bog and fen habitats, 
and used a combination of community fingerprinting and sequencing of marker 
genes to identify community changes associated with drought. Community 
composition varied with habitat and depth. Moreover, community differences 
between mesocosm cores were stronger than the effect of the drought treatment, 
emphasising the importance of replication in microbial marker gene studies. 
While the effect of drought on the overall composition of prokaryotic and 
eukaryotic communities was weak, a subset of the microbial community did change 
in relative abundance, especially in the fen habitat at 5 cm depth. 
'Drought-responsive' OTUs were disproportionately drawn from the phyla 
Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria. Collectively, the data provide insights into 
the microbial community changes occurring alongside drought-driven carbon 
release from peatlands, and suggest a number of novel avenues for future 
research.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-11546-w
PMCID: PMC5595961
PMID: 28900257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


150. Sci Rep. 2017 Jun 12;7(1):3241. doi: 10.1038/s41598-017-03487-1.

Preferential suppression of Anopheles gambiae host sequences allows detection of 
the mosquito eukaryotic microbiome.

Belda E(1)(2), Coulibaly B(3), Fofana A(3), Beavogui AH(4), Traore SF(3), Gohl 
DM(5), Vernick KD(6)(7), Riehle MM(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasites and Insect Vectors, Unit of Genetics and Genomics of 
Insect Vectors, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.
(2)CNRS Unit of Hosts, Vectors and Pathogens (URA3012), Paris, France.
(3)Malaria Research and Training Centre (MRTC), Faculty of Medicine and 
Dentistry, University of Mali, Bamako, Mali.
(4)Centre de Formation et de Recherche en Santé Rurale de Mafèrinyah, Conakry, 
Guinea.
(5)University of Minnesota Genomics Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(6)Department of Parasites and Insect Vectors, Unit of Genetics and Genomics of 
Insect Vectors, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France. kvernick@pasteur.fr.
(7)CNRS Unit of Hosts, Vectors and Pathogens (URA3012), Paris, France. 
kvernick@pasteur.fr.
(8)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Anopheles mosquitoes are vectors of the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium 
falciparum. The vector microbiota is a likely factor influencing parasite 
transmission. The prokaryotic microbiota of mosquitoes is efficiently surveyed 
by sequencing of hypervariable regions of the 16s ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene. 
However, identification of the eukaryotic microbiota by targeting the 18s rRNA 
gene is challenging due to simultaneous amplification of the abundant 18s rRNA 
gene target in the mosquito host. Consequently, the eukaryotic microbial 
diversity of mosquitoes is vastly underexplored. An efficient methodology is 
needed to identify this component of the microbiota, expected to include 
relatives of Plasmodium. Here, we use defined panels of Anopheles samples from 
West Africa to test two experimental PCR clamp approaches to maximize the 
specific amplification of 18s rRNA gene hypervariable regions from eukaryotic 
microbes: anneal-inhibiting blocking primers and peptide-nucleic acid (PNA) 
oligonucleotide blockers. Of the two, PNA blockers were the only efficient 
blocking strategy, allowing a reduction of mosquito 18s rRNA gene sequences by 
more than 80% for the V4 hypervariable region. These PNA blockers will 
facilitate taxonomic profiling of the eukaryotic microbiota of the A. gambiae 
species complex, and contribute to a better understanding of microbial influence 
upon immunity and pathogen infection.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-017-03487-1
PMCID: PMC5468309
PMID: 28607435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


151. J Zhejiang Univ Sci B. 2013 Dec;14(12):1084-99. doi: 10.1631/jzus.B1200300.

Fungal diversity in adult date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.) revealed by 
culture-dependent and culture-independent approaches.

Ben Chobba I(1), Elleuch A, Ayadi I, Khannous L, Namsi A, Cerqueira F, Drira N, 
Gharsallah N, Vallaeys T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biotechnologies Végétales Appliquées à l'Amélioration des 
Cultures LBVAAC, Faculté des Sciences de Sfax, B.P. 1171, 3000 Sfax, Tunisia; 
Laboratoire de Microorganismes et de Biomolécules, Centre de Biotechnologie de 
Sfax, Université de Sfax, Route Sidi Mansour, B.P. 1177, 3018 Sfax, Tunisia; 
Laboratoire de Phytopathologie Oasienne, Centre Régional de Recherches en 
Agriculture Oasienne à Degache, Degache 2260, Tunisia; Plateforme 
Séquençage-Génotypage SFR "Montpellier Environnement Biodiversité", ISEM, 
Université de Montpellier 2, 34095 Montpellier, France; UMR 5119, Université de 
Montpellier 2, Sciences et Techniques, pl E. Bataillon, CC093, 34095 
Montpellier, France.

Endophytic flora plays a vital role in the colonization and survival of host 
plants, especially in harsh environments, such as arid regions. This flora may, 
however, contain pathogenic species responsible for various troublesome host 
diseases. The present study is aimed at investigating the diversity of both 
cultivable and non-cultivable endophytic fungal floras in the internal tissues 
(roots and leaves) of Tunisian date palm trees (Phoenix dactylifera). 
Accordingly, 13 isolates from both root and leaf samples, exhibiting distinct 
colony morphology, were selected from potato dextrose agar (PDA) medium and 
identified by a sequence match search wherein their 18S-28S internal transcribed 
spacer (ITS) sequences were compared to those available in public databases. 
These findings revealed that the cultivable root and leaf isolates fell into two 
groups, namely Nectriaceae and Pleosporaceae. Additionally, total DNA from palm 
roots and leaves was further extracted and ITS fragments were amplified. 
Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of the ITS from 200 
fungal clones (leaves: 100; roots: 100) using HaeIII restriction enzyme revealed 
13 distinct patterns that were further sequenced and led to the identification 
of Alternaria, Cladosporium, Davidiella (Cladosporium teleomorph), Pythium, 
Curvularia, and uncharacterized fungal endophytes. Both approaches confirmed 
that while the roots were predominantly colonized by Fusaria (members of the 
Nectriaceae family), the leaves were essentially colonized by Alternaria 
(members of the Pleosporaceae family). Overall, the findings of the present 
study constitute, to the authors' knowledge, the first extensive report on the 
diversity of endophytic fungal flora associated with date palm trees (P. 
dactylifera).

DOI: 10.1631/jzus.B1200300
PMCID: PMC3863367
PMID: 24302709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with ethics guidelines: Ines BEN 
CHOBBA, Amine ELLEUCH, Imen AYADI, Lamia KHANNOUS, Ahmed NAMSI, Frederique 
CERQUEIRA, Noureddine DRIRA, Néji GHARSALLAH, and Tatiana VALLAEYS declare that 
they have no conflict of interest. This article does not contain any studies 
with human or animal subjects performed by any of the authors.


152. BMC Microbiol. 2015 Feb 22;15:45. doi: 10.1186/s12866-015-0385-9.

High-throughput sequencing for the detection of the bacterial and fungal 
diversity in Mongolian naturally fermented cow's milk in Russia.

Liu W(1)(2), Zheng Y(3), Kwok LY(4), Sun Z(5)(6), Zhang J(7), Guo Z(8), Hou 
Q(9), Menhe B(10), Zhang H(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. wjliu168@163.com.
(2)Synergetic Innovation Center of Food Safety and Nutrition, Northeast 
Agricultural University, Harbin, 150030, P. R. China. wjliu168@163.com.
(3)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. zhengyi0362@163.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. kwok_ly@yahoo.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. sunzhihong78@163.com.
(6)Synergetic Innovation Center of Food Safety and Nutrition, Northeast 
Agricultural University, Harbin, 150030, P. R. China. sunzhihong78@163.com.
(7)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. zhjch321123@163.com.
(8)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. guozhuang1984@163.com.
(9)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. houqiangchuan@163.com.
(10)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. mhblg@163.com.
(11)Key Laboratory of Dairy Biotechnology and Engineering, Inner Mongolia 
Agricultural University, Hohhot, 010018, P. R. China. hepingdd@vip.sina.com.
(12)Synergetic Innovation Center of Food Safety and Nutrition, Northeast 
Agricultural University, Harbin, 150030, P. R. China. hepingdd@vip.sina.com.

BACKGROUND: Traditional fermented dairy products are major components of the 
typical Mongolian diet since ancient times. However, almost all the previous 
studies on the microbial composition of traditional Mongolian fermented dairy 
products analyzed food samples from the Chinese Mongolian region and Mongolia 
but not the Russian Mongolian region. In this study, the bacterial and fungal 
community diversity of nineteen naturally fermented cow's milk (NFCM) samples 
from local Mongolian families residing in Kalmykia and Chita of Russia was 
investigated with pyrosequencing.
RESULTS: Firmicutes and Ascomycota were the predominant phyla respectively for 
bacteria and fungi. The abundance of the bacterial phylum Acidobacteria was 
considerably different between the samples from the two regions. At genus level, 
Lactobacillus and Pichia were the predominating bacterial and fungal genera, 
respectively, while six bacterial genera significantly differed between the 
Kalmykia (enrichment of Aeromonas, Bacillus, Clostridium, Streptococcus, 
Vogesella) and Chita (enrichment of Lactococcus) samples. The results of 
principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) based on the bacterial or fungal 
composition of the Kalmykia and Chita samples revealed a different microbiota 
structure between the samples collected in these two locations. The redundancy 
analysis (RDA) identified 60 bacterial and 21 fungal OTUs as the key variables 
responsible for such microbiota structural difference.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that structural differences existed in the 
microbiota of NFCM between Kalmykia and Chita. The difference in geographic 
environment may be an important factor influencing the microbial diversity of 
NFCM made by the Mongolians in Russia.

DOI: 10.1186/s12866-015-0385-9
PMCID: PMC4345014
PMID: 25887414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Sci Rep. 2014 Nov 10;4:6966. doi: 10.1038/srep06966.

Community dynamics of prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes in an estuary 
reservoir.

Sun Z(1), Li G(2), Wang C(1), Jing Y(1), Zhu Y(2), Zhang S(2), Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Fudan University, Handan 
Road, 200433, Shanghai, China.
(2)Shanghai Chengtou Raw Water Limited Company, Beiai Road, 200125, Shanghai, 
China.

This study demonstrates both prokaryotic and eukaryotic community structures and 
dominant taxonomies in different positions of the greatest estuary reservoir for 
drinking water source in the world in four seasons of one year using 454 
pyrosequencing method with total of 312,949 16S rRNA and 374,752 18S rRNA gene 
fragments, including 1,652 bacteria OTUs and 1,182 fungus OTUs. During winter 
and spring, the community composition at the phylum level showed that 
microorganisms had similar structures but their quantities were different. 
Similarly, obvious changes at the genus level were observed among the samples 
taken in winter and spring between summer and fall. Microorganisms located the 
reservoir inlet were founded to be different from those in rear at both phylum 
and genus level. Air temperature had a stronger effect than sampling location on 
the microbial community structure. Total nitrogen and dissolved oxygen were 
algae-monitoring indicators during the whole year. Moreover, Bacillus was an 
efficient indicator during summer and autumn for bacteria OTUs.

DOI: 10.1038/srep06966
PMCID: PMC4225533
PMID: 25382138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 19;8(8):e71806. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071806. 
eCollection 2013.

Fungi of the murine gut: episodic variation and proliferation during antibiotic 
treatment.

Dollive S(1), Chen YY, Grunberg S, Bittinger K, Hoffmann C, Vandivier L, Cuff C, 
Lewis JD, Wu GD, Bushman FD.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Department of Microbiology, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America.

Antibiotic use in humans has been associated with outgrowth of fungi. Here we 
used a murine model to investigate the gut microbiome over 76 days of treatment 
with vancomycin, ampicillin, neomycin, and metronidazole and subsequent 
recovery. Mouse stool was studied as a surrogate for the microbiota of the lower 
gastrointestinal tract. The abundance of fungi and bacteria was measured using 
quantitative PCR, and the proportional composition of the communities quantified 
using 454/Roche pyrosequencing of rRNA gene tags. Prior to treatment, bacteria 
outnumbered fungi by >3 orders of magnitude. Upon antibiotic treatment, bacteria 
dropped in abundance >3 orders of magnitude, so that the predominant 16S 
sequences detected became transients derived from food. Upon cessation of 
treatment, bacterial communities mostly returned to their previous numbers and 
types after 8 weeks, though communities remained detectably different from 
untreated controls. Fungal communities varied substantially over time, even in 
the untreated controls. Separate cages within the same treatment group showed 
radical differences, but mice within a cage generally behaved similarly. Fungi 
increased ∼40-fold in abundance upon antibiotic treatment but declined back to 
their original abundance after cessation of treatment. At the last time point, 
Candida remained more abundant than prior to treatment. These data show that 1) 
gut fungal populations change radically during normal mouse husbandry, 2) fungi 
grow out in the gut upon suppression of bacterial communities with antibiotics, 
and 3) perturbations due to antibiotics persist long term in both the fungal and 
bacterial microbiota.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0071806
PMCID: PMC3747063
PMID: 23977147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


155. Microbiome. 2016 Feb 24;4:11. doi: 10.1186/s40168-016-0153-6.

Ghost-tree: creating hybrid-gene phylogenetic trees for diversity analyses.

Fouquier J(1), Rideout JR(2), Bolyen E(3), Chase J(4), Shiffer A(5)(6), McDonald 
D(7), Knight R(8), Caporaso JG(9)(10), Kelley ST(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Bioinformatics and Medical Informatics, San Diego State 
University, San Diego, CA, USA. jennietf@gmail.com.
(2)Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University, 
Flagstaff, AZ, USA. jai.rideout@gmail.com.
(3)Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University, 
Flagstaff, AZ, USA. ebolyen@gmail.com.
(4)Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University, 
Flagstaff, AZ, USA. chasejohnh@gmail.com.
(5)Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University, 
Flagstaff, AZ, USA. shiffy35@gmail.com.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, 
AZ, USA. shiffy35@gmail.com.
(7)Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, WA, USA. wasade@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, and Department of Computer Science and Engineering, 
University of California San Diego, San Diego, CA, USA. robknight@ucsd.edu.
(9)Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University, 
Flagstaff, AZ, USA. greg.caporaso@gmail.com.
(10)Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, 
AZ, USA. greg.caporaso@gmail.com.
(11)Graduate Program in Bioinformatics and Medical Informatics, San Diego State 
University, San Diego, CA, USA. skelley@mail.sdsu.edu.
(12)Department of Biology, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, USA. 
skelley@mail.sdsu.edu.
(13)San Diego State University, 5500 Campanile Drive, San Diego, CA, 92182-4614, 
USA. skelley@mail.sdsu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Fungi play critical roles in many ecosystems, cause serious diseases 
in plants and animals, and pose significant threats to human health and 
structural integrity problems in built environments. While most fungal diversity 
remains unknown, the development of PCR primers for the internal transcribed 
spacer (ITS) combined with next-generation sequencing has substantially improved 
our ability to profile fungal microbial diversity. Although the high sequence 
variability in the ITS region facilitates more accurate species identification, 
it also makes multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis unreliable 
across evolutionarily distant fungi because the sequences are hard to align 
accurately. To address this issue, we created ghost-tree, a bioinformatics tool 
that integrates sequence data from two genetic markers into a single 
phylogenetic tree that can be used for diversity analyses. Our approach starts 
with a "foundation" phylogeny based on one genetic marker whose sequences can be 
aligned across organisms spanning divergent taxonomic groups (e.g., fungal 
families). Then, "extension" phylogenies are built for more closely related 
organisms (e.g., fungal species or strains) using a second more rapidly evolving 
genetic marker. These smaller phylogenies are then grafted onto the foundation 
tree by mapping taxonomic names such that each corresponding foundation-tree tip 
would branch into its new "extension tree" child.
RESULTS: We applied ghost-tree to graft fungal extension phylogenies derived 
from ITS sequences onto a foundation phylogeny derived from fungal 18S 
sequences. Our analysis of simulated and real fungal ITS data sets found that 
phylogenetic distances between fungal communities computed using ghost-tree 
phylogenies explained significantly more variance than non-phylogenetic 
distances. The phylogenetic metrics also improved our ability to distinguish 
small differences (effect sizes) between microbial communities, though results 
were similar to non-phylogenetic methods for larger effect sizes.
CONCLUSIONS: The Silva/UNITE-based ghost tree presented here can be easily 
integrated into existing fungal analysis pipelines to enhance the resolution of 
fungal community differences and improve understanding of these communities in 
built environments. The ghost-tree software package can also be used to develop 
phylogenetic trees for other marker gene sets that afford different taxonomic 
resolution, or for bridging genome trees with amplicon trees.
AVAILABILITY: ghost-tree is pip-installable. All source code, documentation, and 
test code are available under the BSD license at 
https://github.com/JTFouquier/ghost-tree .

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-016-0153-6
PMCID: PMC4765138
PMID: 26905735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Appl Microbiol. 2006 Jun;100(6):1355-63. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2006.02895.x.

Characterization of dominant microbiota of a Ghanaian fermented milk product, 
nyarmie, by culture- and nonculture-based methods.

Obodai M(1), Dodd CE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Food Sciences, School of Biosciences, University of Nottingham, 
Sutton Bonington Campus, Loughborough, Leicestershire, LE12 5RD UK.

AIMS: To characterize the predominant micro-organisms in a Ghanaian traditional 
fermented dairy product, nyarmie, made from cows' milk, using both culture- and 
nonculture-based methods.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Samples of nyarmie were analysed from three production 
sites in Accra, by determining the counts on selective culture media. The 
microbial diversity occurring in nyarmie was also evaluated by 16S/18S ribosomal 
DNA PCR amplification and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Results 
showed that nyarmie contained lactococci and lactobacilli in the range of 10(8) 
and 10(10) CFU ml(-1), respectively, and yeasts at around 10(7) CFU ml(-1). The 
pH ranged between 3.49 and 4.25. The predominant lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in 
nyarmie were Leuconostocmesenteroides ssp. mesenteroides, Streptococcus 
thermophilus, Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus, Lact.helveticus, Lact. 
delbrueckii ssp. lactis and Lactococcus lactis, while Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
was the predominant yeast species. Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. delbrueckii 
was not detected by cultivation but its predominance was revealed by PCR-DGGE 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The flora in products from different producers varied in the LAB 
composition present and may result in variations in product quality.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Development and use of starter cultures 
for nyarmie may be beneficial in improving the consistency of product quality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2006.02895.x
PMID: 16696684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e32486. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032486. Epub 2012 Feb 28.

Repertoire of intensive care unit pneumonia microbiota.

Bousbia S(1), Papazian L, Saux P, Forel JM, Auffray JP, Martin C, Raoult D, La 
Scola B.

Author information:
(1)URMITE, Unité de Recherche sur les Maladies Infectieuses et Tropicales 
Emergentes, Faculté de Médecine, CNRS-IRD UMR 6236, Marseille, France.

Despite the considerable number of studies reported to date, the causative 
agents of pneumonia are not completely identified. We comprehensively applied 
modern and traditional laboratory diagnostic techniques to identify microbiota 
in patients who were admitted to or developed pneumonia in intensive care units 
(ICUs). During a three-year period, we tested the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) 
of patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia, community-acquired pneumonia, 
non-ventilator ICU pneumonia and aspiration pneumonia, and compared the results 
with those from patients without pneumonia (controls). Samples were tested by 
amplification of 16S rDNA, 18S rDNA genes followed by cloning and sequencing and 
by PCR to target specific pathogens. We also included culture, amoeba 
co-culture, detection of antibodies to selected agents and urinary antigen 
tests. Based on molecular testing, we identified a wide repertoire of 160 
bacterial species of which 73 have not been previously reported in pneumonia. 
Moreover, we found 37 putative new bacterial phylotypes with a 16S rDNA gene 
divergence ≥ 98% from known phylotypes. We also identified 24 fungal species of 
which 6 have not been previously reported in pneumonia and 7 viruses. Patients 
can present up to 16 different microorganisms in a single BAL (mean ± SD; 3.77 ± 
2.93). Some pathogens considered to be typical for ICU pneumonia such as 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Streptococcus species can be detected as commonly in 
controls as in pneumonia patients which strikingly highlights the existence of a 
core pulmonary microbiota. Differences in the microbiota of different forms of 
pneumonia were documented.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032486
PMCID: PMC3289664
PMID: 22389704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


158. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 22;9(4):e95567. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095567. 
eCollection 2014.

Systematic design of 18S rRNA gene primers for determining eukaryotic diversity 
in microbial consortia.

Hugerth LW(1), Muller EE(2), Hu YO(1), Lebrun LA(2), Roume H(2), Lundin D(1), 
Wilmes P(2), Andersson AF(1).

Author information:
(1)KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Science for Life Laboratory, School of 
Biotechnology, Division of Gene Technology, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Luxembourg Centre for Systems Biomedicine, University of Luxembourg, 
Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(1):e0117636.

High-throughput sequencing of ribosomal RNA gene (rDNA) amplicons has opened up 
the door to large-scale comparative studies of microbial community structures. 
The short reads currently produced by massively parallel sequencing technologies 
make the choice of sequencing region crucial for accurate phylogenetic 
assignments. While for 16S rDNA, relevant regions have been well described, no 
truly systematic design of 18S rDNA primers aimed at resolving eukaryotic 
diversity has yet been reported. Here we used 31,862 18S rDNA sequences to 
design a set of broad-taxonomic range degenerate PCR primers. We simulated the 
phylogenetic information that each candidate primer pair would retrieve using 
paired- or single-end reads of various lengths, representing different 
sequencing technologies. Primer pairs targeting the V4 region performed best, 
allowing discrimination with paired-end reads as short as 150 bp (with 75% 
accuracy at genus level). The conditions for PCR amplification were optimised 
for one of these primer pairs and this was used to amplify 18S rDNA sequences 
from isolates as well as from a range of environmental samples which were then 
Illumina sequenced and analysed, revealing good concordance between expected and 
observed results. In summary, the reported primer sets will allow minimally 
biased assessment of eukaryotic diversity in different microbial ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095567
PMCID: PMC3995771
PMID: 24755918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


159. Microorganisms. 2020 Apr 21;8(4):602. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8040602.

Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungal Assemblages Significantly Shifted upon Bacterial 
Inoculation in Non-Contaminated and Petroleum-Contaminated Environments.

Dagher DJ(1), de la Providencia IE(2), Pitre FE(1), St-Arnaud M(1), Hijri 
M(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche en Biologie Végétale, Université de Montréal and Jardin 
botanique de Montréal, 4101 Sherbrooke est, Montréal, QC H1X 2B2, Canada.
(2)Neomed-labs 525 Boulevard Cartier O, Laval, QC H7V 4A2, Canada.
(3)AgroBioSciences, University Mohammed VI Polytechnic, Lot 660-Hay Moulay 
Rachid, Ben Guerir 43150, Morocco.

Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) have been shown to reduce plant stress and 
improve their health and growth, making them important components of the 
plant-root associated microbiome, especially in stressful conditions such as 
petroleum hydrocarbons (PHs) contaminated environments. Purposely manipulating 
the root-associated AMF assemblages in order to improve plant health and 
modulate their interaction with the rhizosphere microbes could lead to increased 
agricultural crop yields and phytoremediation performance by the host plant and 
its root-associated microbiota. In this study, we tested whether repeated 
inoculations with a Proteobacteria consortium influenced plant productivity and 
the AMF assemblages associated with the root and rhizosphere of four plant 
species growing either in non-contaminated natural soil or in sediments 
contaminated with petroleum hydrocarbons. A mesocosm experiment was performed in 
a randomized complete block design in four blocks with two factors: (1) 
substrate contamination (contaminated or not contaminated), and (2) inoculation 
(or not) with a bacterial consortium composed of ten isolates of Proteobacteria. 
Plants were grown in a greenhouse over four months, after which the effect of 
treatments on plant biomass and petroleum hydrocarbon concentrations in the 
substrate were determined. MiSeq amplicon sequencing, targeting the 18S rRNA 
gene, was used to assess AMF community structures in the roots and rhizosphere 
of plants growing in both contaminated and non-contaminated substrates. We also 
investigated the contribution of plant identity and biotope (plant roots and 
rhizospheric soil) in shaping the associated AMF assemblages. Our results showed 
that while inoculation caused a significant shift in AMF communities, the 
substrate contamination had a much stronger influence on their structure, 
followed by the biotope and plant identity to a lesser extent. Moreover, 
inoculation significantly increased plant biomass production and was associated 
with a decreased petroleum hydrocarbons dissipation in the contaminated soil. 
The outcome of this study provides knowledge on the factors influencing the 
diversity and community structure of AMF associated with indigenous plants 
following repeated inoculation of a bacterial consortium. It highlights the 
dominance of soil chemical properties, such as petroleum hydrocarbon presence, 
over biotic factors and inputs, such as plant species and microbial 
inoculations, in determining the plant-associated arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi 
communities.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8040602
PMCID: PMC7232219
PMID: 32326329

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


160. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 10;9(11):e112846. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112846. 
eCollection 2014.

Faecal microbiota of forage-fed horses in New Zealand and the population 
dynamics of microbial communities following dietary change.

Fernandes KA(1), Kittelmann S(2), Rogers CW(1), Gee EK(1), Bolwell CF(1), 
Bermingham EN(2), Thomas DG(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Veterinary, Animal, and Biomedical Sciences, College of 
Sciences, Massey University, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand.
(2)AgResearch Ltd, Grasslands Research Centre, Palmerston North 4442, New 
Zealand.

The effects of abrupt dietary transition on the faecal microbiota of forage-fed 
horses over a 3-week period were investigated. Yearling Thoroughbred fillies 
reared as a cohort were exclusively fed on either an ensiled conserved 
forage-grain diet ("Group A"; n = 6) or pasture ("Group B"; n = 6) for three 
weeks prior to the study. After the Day 0 faecal samples were collected, horses 
of Group A were abruptly transitioned to pasture. Both groups continued to graze 
similar pasture for three weeks, with faecal samples collected at 4-day 
intervals. DNA was isolated from the faeces and microbial 16S and 18S rRNA gene 
amplicons were generated and analysed by pyrosequencing. The faecal bacterial 
communities of both groups of horses were highly diverse (Simpson's index of 
diversity > 0.8), with differences between the two groups on Day 0 (P < 0.017 
adjusted for multiple comparisons). There were differences between Groups A and 
B in the relative abundances of four genera, BF311 (family Bacteroidaceae; P = 
0.003), CF231 (family Paraprevotellaceae; P = 0.004), and currently unclassified 
members within the order Clostridiales (P = 0.003) and within the family 
Lachnospiraceae (P = 0.006). The bacterial community of Group A horses became 
similar to Group B within four days of feeding on pasture, whereas the structure 
of the archaeal community remained constant pre- and post-dietary change. The 
community structure of the faecal microbiota (bacteria, archaea and ciliate 
protozoa) of pasture-fed horses was also identified. The initial differences 
observed appeared to be linked to recent dietary history, with the bacterial 
community of the forage-fed horses responding rapidly to abrupt dietary change.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112846
PMCID: PMC4226576
PMID: 25383707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


161. Sci Rep. 2014 Sep 18;4:6417. doi: 10.1038/srep06417.

Pathogenic eukaryotes in gut microbiota of western lowland gorillas as revealed 
by molecular survey.

Hamad I(1), Keita MB(1), Peeters M(2), Delaporte E(2), Raoult D(1), Bittar F(1).

Author information:
(1)Aix-Marseille Université, URMITE, UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198, Inserm 1095, 
13005 Marseille, France.
(2)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, University Montpellier 1, UMI 
233, Montpellier, France.

Although gorillas regarded as the largest extant species of primates and have a 
close phylogenetic relationship with humans, eukaryotic communities have not 
been previously studied in these populations. Herein, 35 eukaryotic primer sets 
targeting the 18S rRNA gene, internal transcribed spacer gene and other specific 
genes were used firstly to explore the eukaryotes in a fecal sample from a wild 
western lowland gorilla (Gorilla gorilla gorilla). Then specific real-time PCRs 
were achieved in additional 48 fecal samples from 21 individual gorillas to 
investigate the presence of human eukaryotic pathogens. In total, 1,572 clones 
were obtained and sequenced from the 15 cloning libraries, resulting in the 
retrieval of 87 eukaryotic species, including 52 fungi, 10 protozoa, 4 nematodes 
and 21 plant species, of which 52, 5, 2 and 21 species, respectively, have never 
before been described in gorillas. We also reported the occurrence of pathogenic 
fungi and parasites (i.e. Oesophagostomum bifurcum (86%), Necator americanus 
(43%), Candida tropicalis (81%) and other pathogenic fungi were identified). In 
conclusion, molecular techniques using multiple primer sets may offer an 
effective tool to study complex eukaryotic communities and to identify potential 
pathogens in the gastrointestinal tracts of primates.

DOI: 10.1038/srep06417
PMCID: PMC4166708
PMID: 25231746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Genome Biol. 2012 Jul 3;13(7):R60. doi: 10.1186/gb-2012-13-7-r60.

A tool kit for quantifying eukaryotic rRNA gene sequences from human microbiome 
samples.

Dollive S, Peterfreund GL, Sherrill-Mix S, Bittinger K, Sinha R, Hoffmann C, 
Nabel CS, Hill DA, Artis D, Bachman MA, Custers-Allen R, Grunberg S, Wu GD, 
Lewis JD, Bushman FD.

Eukaryotic microorganisms are important but understudied components of the human 
microbiome. Here we present a pipeline for analysis of deep sequencing data on 
single cell eukaryotes. We designed a new 18S rRNA gene-specific PCR primer set 
and compared a published rRNA gene internal transcribed spacer (ITS) gene primer 
set. Amplicons were tested against 24 specimens from defined eukaryotes and 
eight well-characterized human stool samples. A software pipeline 
https://sourceforge.net/projects/brocc/ was developed for taxonomic attribution, 
validated against simulated data, and tested on pyrosequence data. This study 
provides a well-characterized tool kit for sequence-based enumeration of 
eukaryotic organisms in human microbiome samples.

DOI: 10.1186/gb-2012-13-7-r60
PMCID: PMC4053730
PMID: 22759449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2015 Oct;81(19):6825-38. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02221-15. Epub 
2015 Jul 24.

Roles of Thermophiles and Fungi in Bitumen Degradation in Mostly Cold Oil Sands 
Outcrops.

Wong ML(1), An D(1), Caffrey SM(1), Soh J(2), Dong X(3), Sensen CW(4), Oldenburg 
TB(3), Larter SR(3), Voordouw G(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, 
Canada.
(2)Visual Genomics Centre, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.
(3)Department of Geoscience, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(4)Graz Technical University, Institute of Molecular Biotechnology, AG 
Computational Biotechnology, Graz, Austria.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, 
Canada voordouw@ucalgary.ca.

Oil sands are surface exposed in river valley outcrops in northeastern Alberta, 
where flat slabs (tablets) of weathered, bitumen-saturated sandstone can be 
retrieved from outcrop cliffs or from riverbeds. Although the average yearly 
surface temperature of this region is low (0.7°C), we found that the 
temperatures of the exposed surfaces of outcrop cliffs reached 55 to 60°C on 
sunny summer days, with daily maxima being 27 to 31°C. Analysis of the 
cooccurrence of taxa derived from pyrosequencing of 16S/18S rRNA genes indicated 
that an aerobic microbial network of fungi and hydrocarbon-, methane-, or 
acetate-oxidizing heterotrophic bacteria was present in all cliff tablets. 
Metagenomic analyses indicated an elevated presence of fungal cytochrome P450 
monooxygenases in these samples. This network was distinct from the 
heterotrophic community found in riverbeds, which included fewer fungi. A subset 
of cliff tablets had a network of anaerobic and/or thermophilic taxa, including 
methanogens, Firmicutes, and Thermotogae, in the center. Long-term aerobic 
incubation of outcrop samples at 55°C gave a thermophilic microbial community. 
Analysis of residual bitumen with a Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance 
mass spectrometer indicated that aerobic degradation proceeded at 55°C but not 
at 4°C. Little anaerobic degradation was observed. These results indicate that 
bitumen degradation on outcrop surfaces is a largely aerobic process with a 
minor anaerobic contribution and is catalyzed by a consortium of bacteria and 
fungi. Bitumen degradation is stimulated by periodic high temperatures on 
outcrop cliffs, which cause significant decreases in bitumen viscosity.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02221-15
PMCID: PMC4561710
PMID: 26209669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Aquat Biosyst. 2013 Aug 20;9(1):16. doi: 10.1186/2046-9063-9-16.

Diversity of picoeukaryotes at an oligotrophic site off the Northeastern Red Sea 
Coast.

Acosta F(1), Ngugi DK, Stingl U.

Author information:
(1)Red Sea Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, 
4700 KAUST, Thuwal 23955-6900, Saudi Arabia. uli.stingl@kaust.edu.sa.

BACKGROUND: Picoeukaryotes are protists ≤ 3 μm composed of a wide diversity of 
taxonomic groups. They are an important constituent of the ocean's microbiota 
and perform essential ecological roles in marine nutrient and carbon cycles. 
Despite their importance, the true extent of their diversity has only recently 
been uncovered by molecular surveys that resulted in the discovery of a 
substantial number of previously unknown groups. No study on picoeukaryote 
diversity has been conducted so far in the main Red Sea basin-a unique marine 
environment characterized by oligotrophic conditions, high levels of irradiance, 
high salinity and increased water temperature.
RESULTS: We sampled surface waters off the coast of the northeastern Red Sea and 
analyzed the picoeukaryotic diversity using Sanger-based clone libraries of the 
18S rRNA gene in order to produce high quality, nearly full-length sequences. 
The community captured by our approach was dominated by three main phyla, the 
alveolates, stramenopiles and chlorophytes; members of Radiolaria, Cercozoa and 
Haptophyta were also found, albeit in low abundances. Photosynthetic organisms 
were especially diverse and abundant in the sample, confirming the importance of 
picophytoplankton for primary production in the basin as well as indicating the 
existence of numerous ecological micro-niches for this trophic level in the 
upper euphotic zone. Heterotrophic organisms were mostly composed of the 
presumably parasitic Marine Alveolates (MALV) and the presumably bacterivorous 
Marine Stramenopiles (MAST) groups. A small number of sequences that did not 
cluster closely with known clades were also found, especially in the MALV-II 
group, some of which could potentially belong to novel clades.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides the first snapshot of the picoeukaryotic 
diversity present in surface waters of the Red Sea, hence setting the stage for 
large-scale surveying and characterization of the eukaryotic diversity in the 
entire basin. Our results indicate that the picoeukaryotic community in the 
northern Red Sea, despite its unique physiochemical conditions (i.e. increased 
temperatures, increased salinity, and high UV irradiance) does not differ vastly 
from its counterparts in other oligotrophic marine habitats.

DOI: 10.1186/2046-9063-9-16
PMCID: PMC3766091
PMID: 23962380


165. Microbiome. 2020 Apr 20;8(1):55. doi: 10.1186/s40168-020-00827-8.

Disentangling the mechanisms shaping the surface ocean microbiota.

Logares R(1)(2), Deutschmann IM(3), Junger PC(4), Giner CR(3)(5), Krabberød 
AK(6), Schmidt TSB(7), Rubinat-Ripoll L(8), Mestre M(3)(9)(10), Salazar 
G(3)(11), Ruiz-González C(3), Sebastián M(3)(12), de Vargas C(8), Acinas SG(3), 
Duarte CM(13), Gasol JM(3)(14), Massana R(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Marine Sciences (ICM), CSIC, 08003, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. 
ramiro.logares@icm.csic.es.
(2)Department of Biosciences, Section for Genetics and Evolutionary Biology, 
University of Oslo, 0316, Oslo, Norway. ramiro.logares@icm.csic.es.
(3)Institute of Marine Sciences (ICM), CSIC, 08003, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(4)Laboratory of Microbial Processes & Biodiversity (LMPB), Department of 
Hydrobiology (DHB), Universidade Federal de São Carlos (UFSCar), São Carlos, 
13565-905, SP, Brazil.
(5)Institute for the Oceans and Fisheries, University of British Columbia, 2202 
Main Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, Canada.
(6)Department of Biosciences, Section for Genetics and Evolutionary Biology, 
University of Oslo, 0316, Oslo, Norway.
(7)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Meyerhofstr. 1, 69117, Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(8)Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06, CNRS UMR 7144, Adaptation et 
Diversité en Milieu Marin, Equipe EPEP, Station Biologique de Roscoff, 29680, 
Roscoff, France.
(9)Centro de Investigación Oceanográfica COPAS Sur-Austral, Departamento de 
Oceanografía, Universidad de Concepción, Concepción, Chile.
(10)Centro FONDAP de Investigación Dinámica de Ecosistemas Marinos de Altas 
Latitudes (IDEAL), Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile.
(11)Department of Biology, Institute of Microbiology and Swiss Institute of 
Bioinformatics, ETH Zürich, 8093, Zürich, Switzerland.
(12)Oceanography and Global Change Institute, IOCAG, University of Las Palmas de 
Gran Canaria, ULPGC, 35214, Gran Canaria, Spain.
(13)King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), Red Sea Research 
Center (RSRC), Thuwal, Saudi Arabia.
(14)Centre for Marine Ecosystems Research, School of Science, Edith Cowan 
University, Joondalup, WA, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The ocean microbiota modulates global biogeochemical cycles and 
changes in its configuration may have large-scale consequences. Yet, the 
underlying ecological mechanisms structuring it are unclear. Here, we 
investigate how fundamental ecological mechanisms (selection, dispersal and 
ecological drift) shape the smallest members of the tropical and subtropical 
surface-ocean microbiota: prokaryotes and minute eukaryotes (picoeukaryotes). 
Furthermore, we investigate the agents exerting abiotic selection on this 
assemblage as well as the spatial patterns emerging from the action of 
ecological mechanisms. To explore this, we analysed the composition of 
surface-ocean prokaryotic and picoeukaryotic communities using DNA-sequence data 
(16S- and 18S-rRNA genes) collected during the circumglobal expeditions 
Malaspina-2010 and TARA-Oceans.
RESULTS: We found that the two main components of the tropical and subtropical 
surface-ocean microbiota, prokaryotes and picoeukaryotes, appear to be 
structured by different ecological mechanisms. Picoeukaryotic communities were 
predominantly structured by dispersal-limitation, while prokaryotic counterparts 
appeared to be shaped by the combined action of dispersal-limitation, selection 
and drift. Temperature-driven selection appeared as a major factor, out of a few 
selected factors, influencing species co-occurrence networks in prokaryotes but 
not in picoeukaryotes, indicating that association patterns may contribute to 
understand ocean microbiota structure and response to selection. Other measured 
abiotic variables seemed to have limited selective effects on community 
structure in the tropical and subtropical ocean. Picoeukaryotes displayed a 
higher spatial differentiation between communities and a higher distance decay 
when compared to prokaryotes, consistent with a scenario of higher dispersal 
limitation in the former after considering environmental heterogeneity. Lastly, 
random dynamics or drift seemed to have a more important role in structuring 
prokaryotic communities than picoeukaryotic counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: The differential action of ecological mechanisms seems to cause 
contrasting biogeography, in the tropical and subtropical ocean, among the 
smallest surface plankton, prokaryotes and picoeukaryotes. This suggests that 
the idiosyncrasy of the main constituents of the ocean microbiota should be 
considered in order to understand its current and future configuration, which is 
especially relevant in a context of global change, where the reaction of surface 
ocean plankton to temperature increase is still unclear. Video Abstract.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-020-00827-8
PMCID: PMC7171866
PMID: 32312331

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


166. FASEB J. 2012 Apr;26(4):1727-35. doi: 10.1096/fj.11-197921. Epub 2012 Jan 12.

Intestinal microbiota determine severity of myocardial infarction in rats.

Lam V(1), Su J, Koprowski S, Hsu A, Tweddell JS, Rafiee P, Gross GJ, Salzman NH, 
Baker JE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, 8701 
Watertown Plank Rd., Milwaukee, WI 53226, USA.

Comment in
    FASEB J. 2012 Nov;26(11):4388; author reply 4388-9.

Signals from the intestinal microbiota are important for normal host physiology; 
alteration of the microbiota (dysbiosis) is associated with multiple disease 
states. We determined the effect of antibiotic-induced intestinal dysbiosis on 
circulating cytokine levels and severity of ischemia/reperfusion injury in the 
heart. Treatment of Dahl S rats with a minimally absorbed antibiotic vancomycin, 
in the drinking water, decreased circulating leptin levels by 38%, resulted in 
smaller myocardial infarcts (27% reduction), and improved recovery of 
postischemic mechanical function (35%) as compared with untreated controls. 
Vancomycin altered the abundance of intestinal bacteria and fungi, measured by 
16S and 18S ribosomal DNA quantity. Pretreatment with leptin (0.12 μg/kg i.v.) 
24 h before ischemia/reperfusion abolished cardioprotection produced by 
vancomycin treatment. Dahl S rats fed the commercially available probiotic 
product Goodbelly, which contains the leptin-suppressing bacteria Lactobacillus 
plantarum 299v, also resulted in decreased circulating leptin levels by 41%, 
smaller myocardial infarcts (29% reduction), and greater recovery of 
postischemic mechanical function (23%). Pretreatment with leptin (0.12 μg/kg 
i.v.) abolished cardioprotection produced by Goodbelly. This proof-of-concept 
study is the first to identify a mechanistic link between changes in intestinal 
microbiota and myocardial infarction and demonstrates that a probiotic 
supplement can reduce myocardial infarct size.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.11-197921
PMCID: PMC3316900
PMID: 22247331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Environ Microbiol. 2020 Mar;22(3):873-888. doi: 10.1111/1462-2920.14653. Epub 
2019 Jun 27.

Unraveling spatiotemporal variability of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in a 
temperate grassland plot.

Goldmann K(1), Boeddinghaus RS(2), Klemmer S(1), Regan KM(2)(3), Heintz-Buschart 
A(1)(4), Fischer M(5), Prati D(5), Piepho HP(6), Berner D(2), Marhan S(2), 
Kandeler E(2), Buscot F(1)(4), Wubet T(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Soil Ecology, UFZ - Helmholtz Centre for Environmental 
Research, Theodor-Lieser-Straße 4, 06120, Halle (Saale), Germany.
(2)Department of Soil Biology, Institute of Soil Science and Land Evaluation, 
University of Hohenheim, Emil-Wolff-Straße 27, 70599, Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)Ecosystems Center, Marine Biological Laboratory, 7 MBL Street, Woods Hole, 
MA, 02543, USA.
(4)German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) 
Halle-Jena-Leipzig, Deutscher Platz 5e, 04103, Leipzig, Germany.
(5)Institute of Plant Sciences and Botanical Garden, University of Bern, 
Altenbergrain 21, 3013, Bern, Switzerland.
(6)Institute of Crop Science, Biostatistics Unit, University of Hohenheim, 
Fruwirthstraße 23, 70599, Stuttgart, Germany.

Soils provide a heterogeneous environment varying in space and time; 
consequently, the biodiversity of soil microorganisms also differs spatially and 
temporally. For soil microbes tightly associated with plant roots, such as 
arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF), the diversity of plant partners and seasonal 
variability in trophic exchanges between the symbionts introduce additional 
heterogeneity. To clarify the impact of such heterogeneity, we investigated 
spatiotemporal variation in AMF diversity on a plot scale (10 × 10 m) in a 
grassland managed at low intensity in southwest Germany. AMF diversity was 
determined using 18S rDNA pyrosequencing analysis of 360 soil samples taken at 
six time points within a year. We observed high AMF alpha- and beta-diversity 
across the plot and at all investigated time points. Relationships were detected 
between spatiotemporal variation in AMF OTU richness and plant species richness, 
root biomass, minimal changes in soil texture and pH. The plot was characterized 
by high AMF turnover rates with a positive spatiotemporal relationship for AMF 
beta-diversity. However, environmental variables explained only ≈20% of the 
variation in AMF communities. This indicates that the observed spatiotemporal 
richness and community variability of AMF was largely independent of the abiotic 
environment, but related to plant properties and the cooccurring microbiome.

© 2019 The Authors. Environmental Microbiology published by Society for Applied 
Microbiology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1462-2920.14653
PMCID: PMC7065148
PMID: 31087598


168. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e47879. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047879. Epub 2013 Feb 8.

Simultaneous amplicon sequencing to explore co-occurrence patterns of bacterial, 
archaeal and eukaryotic microorganisms in rumen microbial communities.

Kittelmann S(1), Seedorf H, Walters WA, Clemente JC, Knight R, Gordon JI, 
Janssen PH.

Author information:
(1)AgResearch Ltd, Grasslands Research Centre, Palmerston North, New Zealand.

Ruminants rely on a complex rumen microbial community to convert dietary plant 
material to energy-yielding products. Here we developed a method to 
simultaneously analyze the community's bacterial and archaeal 16S rRNA genes, 
ciliate 18S rRNA genes and anaerobic fungal internal transcribed spacer 1 genes 
using 12 DNA samples derived from 11 different rumen samples from three host 
species (Ovis aries, Bos taurus, Cervus elephas) and multiplex 454 Titanium 
pyrosequencing. We show that the mixing ratio of the group-specific DNA 
templates before emulsion PCR is crucial to compensate for differences in 
amplicon length. This method, in contrast to using a non-specific universal 
primer pair, avoids sequencing non-targeted DNA, such as plant- or 
endophyte-derived rRNA genes, and allows increased or decreased levels of 
community structure resolution for each microbial group as needed. Communities 
analyzed with different primers always grouped by sample origin rather than by 
the primers used. However, primer choice had a greater impact on apparent 
archaeal community structure than on bacterial community structure, and biases 
for certain methanogen groups were detected. Co-occurrence analysis of microbial 
taxa from all three domains of life suggested strong within- and between-domain 
correlations between different groups of microorganisms within the rumen. The 
approach used to simultaneously characterize bacterial, archaeal and eukaryotic 
components of a microbiota should be applicable to other communities occupying 
diverse habitats.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047879
PMCID: PMC3568148
PMID: 23408926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Two of the authors are from 
AgResearch Ltd., which is a Crown Research Institute, and is funded by the 
Pastoral Greenhouse Gas Research Consortium (PGgRc) to develop means of 
mitigating ruminant methane emissions. PGgRc's members are AgResearch, Fonterra, 
Fert Research, PGG Wrightson, DairyNZ, Deer Research, Beef+Lamb New Zealand, 
Landcorp, NIWA, the Ministry for Primary Industries, and the Ministry of Science 
and Innovation (formerly Foundation for Research, Science and Technology). The 
publication of the data reported here is at the discretion of the PGgRc. The 
PGgRc did not control which data were presented or how these data were 
interpreted within this paper. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all 
the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. The other authors have 
declared that no competing interests exist. There are no patents, products in 
development or marketed products to declare.


169. Microorganisms. 2020 Mar 31;8(4):497. doi: 10.3390/microorganisms8040497.

Investigating Algal Communities in Lacustrine and Hydro-Terrestrial Environments 
of East Antarctica Using Deep Amplicon Sequencing.

Hirose Y(1), Shiozaki T(2)(3), Otani M(4), Kudoh S(5)(6), Imura S(5)(6), Eki 
T(1), Harada N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Chemistry and Life Science, Toyohashi University of 
Technology, 1-1 Hibarigaoka, Tempaku, Toyohashi, Aichi 441-8580, Japan.
(2)Earth Surface System Research Center, Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science 
and Technology, 2-15 Natsushima-cho, Yokosuka, Kanagawa 237-0061, Japan.
(3)Current address: Atmosphere and Ocean Research Institute, The University of 
Tokyo, 5-1-5 Kashiwanoha, Kashiwa, Chiba 277-8564, Japan.
(4)Faculty of Agriculture, Niigata University, 2-8050 Ikarashi, Niigata, Niigata 
950-2181, Japan.
(5)National Institute of Polar Research, Corporation Research Organization of 
Information and Systems, 10-3 Midori-cho, Tachikawa, Tokyo 190-8518, Japan.
(6)Department of Polar Science, SOKENDAI (The Graduate University for Advanced 
Studies), 10-3, Midori-cho, Tachikawa, Tokyo 190-8518, Japan.

Antarctica has one of the most extreme environments on Earth, with low 
temperatures and low nutrient levels. Antarctica's organisms live primarily in 
the coastal, ice-free areas which cover approximately 0.18% of the continent's 
surface. Members of Cyanobacteria and eukaryotic algae are important primary 
producers in Antarctica since they can synthesize organic compounds from carbon 
dioxide and water using solar energy. However, community structures of 
photosynthetic algae in Antarctica have not yet been fully explored at molecular 
level. In this study, we collected diverse algal samples in lacustrine and 
hydro-terrestrial environments of Langhovde and Skarvsnes, which are two 
ice-free regions in East Antarctica. We performed deep amplicon sequencing of 
both 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) and 18S rRNA genes, and we explored 
the distribution of sequence variants (SVs) of these genes at single nucleotide 
difference resolution. SVs of filamentous Cyanobacteria genera, including 
Leptolyngbya, Pseudanabaena, Phormidium, Nodosilinea, Geitlerinama, and 
Tychonema, were identified in most of the samples, whereas Phormidesmis SVs were 
distributed in fewer samples. We also detected unicellular, multicellular or 
heterocyst forming Cyanobacteria strains, but in relatively small abundance. For 
SVs of eukaryotic algae, Chlorophyta, Cryptophyta, and Ochrophyta were widely 
distributed among the collected samples. In addition, there was a red colored 
bloom of eukaryotic alga, Geminigera cryophile (Cryptophyta), in the Langhovde 
coastal area. Eukaryotic SVs of Acutuncus antarcticus and/or Diphascon pingue of 
Tardigrada were dominant among most of the samples. Our data revealed the 
detailed structures of the algal communities in Langhovde and Skarvsnes. This 
will contribute to our understanding of Antarctic ecosystems and support further 
research into this subject.

DOI: 10.3390/microorganisms8040497
PMCID: PMC7232531
PMID: 32244517

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript, or in the decision to 
publish the results.


170. Int J Food Microbiol. 2015 Jun 16;203:35-40. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2015.03.007. Epub 2015 Mar 7.

Characterization of the microbial diversity in yacon spontaneous fermentation at 
20 °C.

Reina LD(1), Pérez-Díaz IM(2), Breidt F(2), Azcarate-Peril MA(3), Medina E(4), 
Butz N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food, Bioprocessing, and Nutrition Sciences, North Carolina 
State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, United States. Electronic address: 
ldreina@yahoo.com.
(2)USDA-Agriculture Research Service, SAA, Food Science Research Unit, 322 
Schaub Hall-NCSU, Raleigh, NC 27695, United States.
(3)Microbiome Core Facility, Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, School 
of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, United States.
(4)Department of Food, Bioprocessing, and Nutrition Sciences, North Carolina 
State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, United States; Department of Food 
Biotechnolgy, Instituto de la Grasa, CSIC, Seville, Spain.

The prebiotic fructooligosaccharide content of yacon makes this root an 
attractive alternative for the supplementation of a variety of food products. 
The preservation of yacon by fermentation has been proposed as an alternative to 
increase the probiotic content of the root concomitantly with its shelf life. 
Thus the fermented yacon could have significant functional content. The 
objective of this research was to characterize the biochemistry and microbiology 
of spontaneous yacon fermentation with 2% NaCl and define the viability of the 
proposed process. The biochemical analysis of spontaneous heterolactic 
fermentation of yacon showed a progressive drop in pH with increased lactic and 
acetic acids, and the production of mannitol during fermentation. The microbial 
ecology of yacon fermentation was investigated using culture-dependent and 
culture-independent methods. Bacterial cell counts revealed a dominance of 
lactic acid bacteria (LAB) over yeasts, which were also present during the first 
2 days of the fermentation. Results showed that the heterofermentative LAB were 
primarily Leuconostoc species, thus it presents a viable method to achieve long 
term preservation of this root.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2015.03.007
PMCID: PMC4587664
PMID: 25777679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Sci Rep. 2020 Apr 30;10(1):7350. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-64393-7.

Development but not diet alters microbial communities in the Neotropical 
arboreal trap jaw ant Daceton armigerum: an exploratory study.

Ramalho MO(1), Duplais C(2), Orivel J(2), Dejean A(2), Gibson JC(3), Suarez 
AV(3)(4), Moreau CS(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Cornell University, Department of Entomology, Ithaca, NY, 14850, USA. 
manu.ramalho@cornell.edu.
(2)CNRS, UMR Ecologie des Forêts de Guyane, AgroParisTech, CIRAD, INRA, 
Université des Antilles, Université de Guyane, Kourou, France.
(3)Department of Entomology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, 
Illinois, USA.
(4)Department of Evolution, Ecology and Behavior, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, USA.
(5)Cornell University, Department of Entomology, Ithaca, NY, 14850, USA.
(6)Cornell University, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Ithaca, 
NY, 14850, USA.

To better understand the evolutionary significance of symbiotic interactions in 
nature, microbiome studies can help to identify the ecological factors that may 
shape host-associated microbial communities. In this study we explored both 16S 
and 18S rRNA microbial communities of D. armigerum from both wild caught 
individuals collected in the Amazon and individuals kept in the laboratory and 
fed on controlled diets. We also investigated the role of colony, sample type, 
development and caste on structuring microbial communities. Our bacterial 
results (16S rRNA) reveal that (1) there are colony level differences between 
bacterial communities; (2) castes do not structure communities; (3) immature 
stages (brood) have different bacterial communities than adults; and 4) 
individuals kept in the laboratory with a restricted diet showed no differences 
in their bacterial communities from their wild caught nest mates, which could 
indicate the presence of a stable and persistent resident bacterial community in 
this host species. The same categories were also tested for microbial eukaryote 
communities (18S rRNA), and (5) developmental stage has an influence on the 
diversity recovered; (6) the diversity of taxa recovered has shown this can be 
an important tool to understand additional aspects of host biology and species 
interactions.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-64393-7
PMCID: PMC7192945
PMID: 32355187

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


172. J Biosci. 2012 Jun;37(2):221-6. doi: 10.1007/s12038-012-9197-3.

Molecular typing of fecal eukaryotic microbiota of human infants and their 
respective mothers.

Pandey PK(1), Siddharth J, Verma P, Bavdekar A, Patole MS, Shouche YS.

Author information:
(1)Insect Molecular Biology Unit, National Centre for Cell Science, Pune 
University Campus, Ganeshkhind, Pune 411 007, Maharashtra, India.

The micro-eukaryotic diversity from the human gut was investigated using 
universal primers directed towards 18S rRNA gene, fecal samples being the source 
of DNA. The subjects in this study included two breast-fed and two 
formula-milk-fed infants and their mothers. The study revealed that the infants 
did not seem to harbour any microeukaryotes in their gut. In contrast, there 
were distinct eukaryotic microbiota present in the mothers. The investigation is 
the first of its kind in the comparative study of the human feces to reveal the 
presence of micro-eukaryotic diversity variance in infants and adults from the 
Indian subcontinent. The micro-eukaryotes encountered during the investigation 
include known gut colonizers like Blastocystis and some fungi species. Some of 
these micro-eukaryotes have been speculated to be involved in clinical 
manifestations of various diseases. The study is an attempt to highlight the 
importance of micro-eukaryotes in the human gut.

DOI: 10.1007/s12038-012-9197-3
PMID: 22581327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Front Microbiol. 2020 Mar 12;11:370. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00370. eCollection 
2020.

Comparative Analysis of Rhizosphere Microbiomes of Southern Highbush Blueberry 
(Vaccinium corymbosum L.), Darrow's Blueberry (V. darrowii Camp), and Rabbiteye 
Blueberry (V. virgatum Aiton).

Li J(1), Mavrodi OV(2)(3), Hou J(1), Blackmon C(2), Babiker EM(4), Mavrodi 
DV(2).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Soil Environment and Pollution Remediation, Institute of 
Soil Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, School of Biological, 
Environmental, and Earth Sciences, The University of Southern Mississippi, 
Hattiesburg, MS, United States.
(3)South Mississippi Branch Experiment Station, Mississippi State University, 
Poplarville, MS, United States.
(4)USDA-ARS Southern Horticultural Research Laboratory, Poplarville, MS, United 
States.

Plants are inhabited by millions of parasitic, commensal, and mutualistic 
microorganisms that coexist in complex ecological communities, and profoundly 
affect the plant's productivity, health, and capacity to cope with environmental 
stress. Therefore, a better understanding of the rhizosphere microbiome may open 
a yet untapped avenue for the rational exploitation of beneficial plant-microbe 
interactions in modern agriculture. Blueberries encompass several wild and 
cultivated species of shrubs of the genus Vaccinium that are native to North 
America. They are grown commercially for the production of fruits, which are 
considered a health food due to the rich content of minerals, trace elements, 
and phenolic compounds with antioxidant, antitumor, and anti-inflammatory 
properties. Despite a long history of breeding and extensive commercial use, 
remarkably little is known about the composition and function of the blueberry 
root microbiome. To address this gap, we employed molecular approaches to 
characterize and compare microbial communities inhabiting the roots of rabbiteye 
blueberry (Vaccinium virgatum), Darrow's blueberry (Vaccinium darrowii), and 
southern highbush blueberry (SHB; an interspecific hybrid of Vaccinium 
corymbosum and V. darrowii). Our results revealed that these plant species share 
a common core rhizobiome, but at the same time differ significantly in the 
diversity, relative abundance, richness, and evenness of multiple groups of 
prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms. Although the host signature effects 
were especially pronounced at the plant species level, we also observed 
genotype-level variations in the distribution of specific microbial taxa, which 
suggests that the assembly of the blueberry microbiome is shaped by the plant 
genotype and modifications associated with the domestication and breeding of 
members of the Vaccinium genus. We also demonstrated that the studied Vaccinium 
species differ in the abundance of beneficial rhizobacteria and ericoid 
mycorrhizal fungi, which play a vital role in their adaptation to soils with low 
pH and slow turnover of organic matter.

Copyright © 2020 Li, Mavrodi, Hou, Blackmon, Babiker and Mavrodi.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00370
PMCID: PMC7081068
PMID: 32226421


174. Sci Rep. 2015 Feb 12;5:8411. doi: 10.1038/srep08411.

Community structure of gut fungi during different developmental stages of the 
Chinese white pine beetle (Dendroctonus armandi).

Hu X(1), Li M(2), Chen H(3).

Author information:
(1)1] College of Forestry, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, Shaanxi 712100, 
China [2] College of Forestry, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, 
Fuzhou, Fujian 350002, China.
(2)College of Forestry, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Fuzhou, 
Fujian 350002, China.
(3)College of Forestry, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, Shaanxi 712100, 
China.

The Chinese white pine beetle is arguably the most destructive forest insect in 
the Qinling Mountains in Northern China. Little is known about the structure of 
the fungal communities associated with Dendroctonus armandi, even though this 
wood-boring insect plays important roles in ecosystem and biological invasion 
processes that result in huge economic losses in pine forests. The aim of this 
study was to investigate the fungal community structure present in the galleries 
and guts of D. armandi at different developmental stages using PCR-denaturing 
gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Analysis of PCR-amplified 18S rRNA gene 
fragments of fungi from the guts of D. armandi revealed fungal communities of 
low complexity that differed according to the developmental stage. Yeast of the 
genus Candida and the filamentous fungi Ophiostoma predominated in D. armandi 
and its galleries. In particular, Candida accounted for 56% of the fungal 
community in the pupal stage. Characterizing the evolution and content of the 
intestinal microbial community structure in D. armandi may facilitate the 
development of new pest control strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/srep08411
PMCID: PMC4325321
PMID: 25672215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Front Plant Sci. 2020 Jan 10;10:1697. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01697. eCollection 
2019.

Shifts in the Active Rhizobiome Paralleling Low Meloidogyne chitwoodi Densities 
in Fields Under Prolonged Organic Soil Management.

Harkes P(1), van Steenbrugge JJM(1), van den Elsen SJJ(1), Suleiman AKA(2)(3), 
de Haan JJ(4), Holterman MHM(1), Helder J(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Nematology, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen University 
& Research, Wageningen, Netherlands.
(2)Department of Microbial Ecology, NIOO-KNAW, Wageningen, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Microbiological Water Quality and Health, KWR Watercycle 
Research Institute, PE Nieuwegein, Netherlands.
(4)Open Teelten, Department of Wageningen Plant Research, Wageningen University 
& Research, Lelystad, Netherlands.

Plants manipulate their rhizosphere community in a species and even a plant life 
stage-dependent manner. In essence plants select, promote and (de)activate 
directly the local bacterial and fungal community, and indirectly 
representatives of the next trophic level, protists and nematodes. By doing so, 
plants enlarge the pool of bioavailable nutrients and maximize local disease 
suppressiveness within the boundaries set by the nature of the local microbial 
community. MiSeq sequencing of specific variable regions of the 16S or 18S 
ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is widely used to map microbial shifts. As current RNA 
extraction procedures are time-consuming and expensive, the rRNA-based 
characterization of the active microbial community is taken along less 
frequently. Recently, we developed a relatively fast and affordable protocol for 
the simultaneous extraction of rDNA and rRNA from soil. Here, we investigated 
the long-term impact of three type of soil management, two conventional and an 
organic regime, on soil biota in fields naturally infested with the Columbian 
root-knot nematode Meloidogyne chitwoodi with pea (Pisum sativum) as the main 
crop. For all soil samples, large differences were observed between resident 
(rDNA) and active (rRNA) microbial communities. Among the four organismal group 
under investigation, the bacterial community was most affected by the main crop, 
and unweighted and weighted UniFrac analyses (explaining respectively 16.4% and 
51.3% of the observed variation) pointed at a quantitative rather than a 
qualitative shift. LEfSe analyses were employed for each of the four organismal 
groups to taxonomically pinpoint the effects of soil management. Concentrating 
on the bacterial community in the pea rhizosphere, organic soil management 
resulted in a remarkable activation of members of the Burkholderiaceae, 
Enterobacteriaceae, and Pseudomonadaceae. Prolonged organic soil management was 
also accompanied by significantly higher densities of bacterivorous nematodes, 
whereas levels of M. chitwoodi had dropped drastically. Though present and 
active in the fields under investigation Orbiliaceae, a family harboring 
numerous nematophagous fungi, was not associated with the M. chitwoodi decline. 
A closer look revealed that a local accumulation and activation of Pseudomonas, 
a genus that includes a number of nematode-suppressive species, paralleled the 
lower M. chitwoodi densities. This study underlines the relevance of taking 
along both resident and active fractions of multiple organismal groups while 
mapping the impact of e.g. crops and soil management regimes.

Copyright © 2020 Harkes, van Steenbrugge, van den Elsen, Suleiman, de Haan, 
Holterman and Helder.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2019.01697
PMCID: PMC6965313
PMID: 31998352


176. Front Microbiol. 2020 Mar 13;11:367. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00367. eCollection 
2020.

Metatranscriptomic Profiling Reveals the Effect of Breed on Active Rumen 
Eukaryotic Composition in Beef Cattle With Varied Feed Efficiency.

Zhang Y(1)(2), Li F(2), Chen Y(2), Wu H(1), Meng Q(1), Guan LL(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition, College of Animal Science and 
Technology, China Agricultural University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

Exploring the compositional characteristics of rumen eukaryotic community can 
expand our understanding of their role in rumen function and feed efficiency. In 
this study, we applied metatranscriptomics to characterize the active rumen 
eukaryotic community (protozoa and fungi) in beef cattle (n = 48) of three 
breeds [Angus (AN), Charolais (CH), and Kinsella Composite (KC)] and with 
divergent residual feed intake (RFI). The composition of active rumen eukaryotic 
microbiota was evaluated based on enriched 18S rRNAs from the metatranscriptomic 
datasets. At the phylum level, a total of four protozoal taxa (Ciliophora, 
Parabasalia, unclassified SAR, and unclassified Alveolata), six fungal taxa 
(Neocallimastigomycota, Basidiomycota, unclassified Fungi, Mucoromycota, 
Ascomycota, and Chytridiomycota), and one sister group of kingdom Fungi 
(unclassified Opisthokonta) were detected with relative abundances higher than 
0.01% and in at least 50% of animals within each breed. Among these, Ciliophora, 
Parabasalia, unclassified Opisthokonta, and Neocallimastigomycota were the top 
four active eukaryotic phyla. At the genus level, a total of 8 ciliated 
protozoa, 5 flagellated protozoa, 5 anaerobic fungi, and 10 aerobic fungi taxa 
were detected, with unclassified Trichostomatia, Tetratrichomonas, unclassified 
Neocallimastigaceae, and Pleurotus being the most predominant taxa of ciliated 
protozoa, flagellated protozoa, anaerobic fungi, and aerobic fungi, 
respectively. Differential abundance analysis revealed that breed had a 
significant effect on the phylogenetic lineages of rumen eukaryotes, and seven 
fungal taxa were more abundant (linear discriminant analysis score > 2 with P < 
0.05) in the rumen of KC steers than in the rumen of AN and CH steers. Although 
principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) revealed that the ruminal active eukaryotic 
profiles were not distinguishable between high- and low-RFI groups, the 
diversity indices, including Faith's phylogenetic diversity (PD), observed 
operational taxonomic units (OTUs), and Shannon index of rumen eukaryotes were 
higher in low-RFI steers than those in high-RFI steers. Meanwhile, the abundance 
of genus Entodinium and the kingdom Fungi was higher in low-RFI steers than that 
in high-RFI steers. This information on active rumen eukaryotic microbiota and 
identified differential abundance of taxa between high- and low-RFI animals 
suggests the possibility of improving feed efficiency through altering rumen 
eukaryotic microbiota.

Copyright © 2020 Zhang, Li, Chen, Wu, Meng and Guan.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00367
PMCID: PMC7082318
PMID: 32231647


177. J Clin Microbiol. 2006 Aug;44(8):2933-41. doi: 10.1128/JCM.00785-06.

Molecular analysis of fungal microbiota in samples from healthy human skin and 
psoriatic lesions.

Paulino LC(1), Tseng CH, Strober BE, Blaser MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, 550 First 
Ave., OBV-A 606, New York, NY 10016, USA.

Psoriasis, a common cutaneous disease of unknown etiology, may be triggered by 
infections, including those due to fungi. Since the fungal community of human 
skin is poorly characterized, we aimed to analyze the mycological microbiota in 
healthy skin and psoriatic lesions. Twenty-five skin samples from five healthy 
subjects (flexor forearm) and three patients with psoriasis were analyzed using 
broad-range 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) and 5.8S rDNA/internal transcribed spacer 2 
(ITS2) Malassezia-specific PCR primers. Broad-range PCR analysis indicated that 
most organisms resembled Malassezia. Malassezia-specific 5.8S/ITS2 analysis of 
1,374 clones identified five species and four unknown phylotypes, potentially 
representing new species. The species distribution appears largely host specific 
and conserved in different sites of healthy skin. In three subjects, the 
Malassezia microbiota composition appeared relatively stable over time. Samples 
of Malassezia microbiota from healthy skin and psoriatic lesions were similar in 
one patient but substantially different in two others. These data indicate the 
predominance of Malassezia organisms in healthy human skin, host-specific 
variation, stability over time, and as yet, no consistent patterns 
differentiating psoriatic skin from healthy skin.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.00785-06
PMCID: PMC1594634
PMID: 16891514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2019 Jan 28;29(1):105-113. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1712.12026.

Zinc Ions Affect Siderophore Production by Fungi Isolated from the Panax ginseng 
Rhizosphere.

Abdallah Hussein K(1)(2), Joo JH(2).

Author information:
(1)Botany and Microbiology Department, Faculty of Science, Assiut University, 
71516, Assiut, Egypt.
(2)Department of Biological Environment, Kangwon National University, Chuncheon 
24341 , Republic of Korea.

Although siderophore compounds are mainly biosynthesized as a response to iron 
deficiency in the environment, they also bind with other metals. A few studies 
have been conducted on the impact of heavy metals on the siderophore-mediated 
iron uptake by microbiome. Here, we investigated siderophore production by a 
variety of rhizosphere fungi under different concentrations of Zn²⁺ ion. These 
strains were specifically isolated from the rhizosphere of Panax ginseng (Korean 
ginseng). The siderophore production of isolated fungi was investigated with 
chrome azurol S (CAS) assay liquid media amended with different concentrations 
of Zn²⁺ (50 to 250 μg/ml). The percentage of siderophore units was quantified 
using the ultra-violet (UV) irradiation method. The results indicated that high 
concentrations of Zn²⁺ ion increase the production of siderophore in 
iron-limited cultures. Maximum siderophore production by the fungal strains was 
detected at Zn²⁺ ion concentration of 150 μg/ml except for Mortierella sp., 
which had the highest siderophore production at 200 μg/ml. One potent 
siderophore-producing strain (Penicillium sp. JJHO) was strongly influenced by 
the presence of Zn²⁺ ions and showed high identity to P. commune (100% using 
18S-rRNA sequencing). The purified siderophores of the Penicillium sp. JJHO 
strain were chemically identified using UV, Fourier-transform infrared 
spectroscopy (FTIR), and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization 
time-of-flight mass spectrometer (MALDI-TOF-MS) spectra.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1712.12026
PMID: 30304916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Eukaryot Microbiol. 2016 Sep;63(5):635-41. doi: 10.1111/jeu.12314. Epub 2016 
Apr 14.

High Diversity Revealed in Leaf-Associated Protists (Rhizaria: Cercozoa) of 
Brassicaceae.

Ploch S(1)(2), Rose LE(1), Bass D(3)(4), Bonkowski M(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Genetics, Cluster of Excellence in Plant Sciences, 
University of Düsseldorf, Universitätsstr. 1, D-40225, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(2)Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Center, Georg-Voigt-Street 
14-16, D-60325, Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, The Natural History Museum, London, SW7 5BD, 
United Kingdom.
(4)Centre for Environment, Fisheries, and Aquaculture Science (Cefas), Barrack 
Road, The Nothe, Weymouth, Dorset, DT4 8UB, United Kingdom.
(5)Department of Terrestrial Ecology, Institute of Zoology, University of 
Cologne, Zülpicher Street 47b, D-50674, Köln, Germany.

The largest biological surface on earth is formed by plant leaves. These leaf 
surfaces are colonized by a specialized suite of leaf-inhabiting microorganisms, 
recently termed "phyllosphere microbiome". Microbial prey, however, attract 
microbial predators. Protists in particular have been shown to structure 
bacterial communities on plant surfaces, but virtually nothing is known about 
the community composition of protists on leaves. Using newly designed specific 
primers targeting the 18S rDNA gene of Cercozoa, we investigated the species 
richness of this common protist group on leaves of four Brassicaceae species 
from two different locations in a cloning-based approach. The generated 
sequences revealed a broad diversity of leaf-associated Cercozoa, mostly 
bacterial feeders, but also including known plant pathogens and a taxon of 
potential endophytes that were recently described as algal predators in 
freshwater systems. This initial study shows that protists must be regarded as 
an integral part of the microbial diversity in the phyllosphere of plants.

© 2016 The Authors. The Journal of Eukaryotic Microbiology published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of International Society of Protistologists.

DOI: 10.1111/jeu.12314
PMCID: PMC5031217
PMID: 27005328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2010 Oct;51(4):388-94. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-765X.2010.02906.x. Epub 2010 Aug 5.

Determination of microbial diversity in meju, fermented cooked soya beans, using 
nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.

Lee JH(1), Kim TW, Lee H, Chang HC, Kim HY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences & Resources and Graduate School of Biotechnology, 
Kyung Hee University, Yongin, Korea.

AIMS: To identify the microbiota in meju, fermented cooked soya beans, that may 
directly affect the microbial communities of Korean fermented soya bean foods.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using conventional bacterial 16S rDNA, bacilli-specific 16S 
rDNA or fungi 18S rDNA-specific primers, PCR products were amplified through a 
series of PCRs using the DNA extracted from ten meju samples. The amplicons were 
analysed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), which showed that 
Enterococcus durans was commonly detected in nine of ten meju samples. Bacillus 
subtilis was shown to be the major strain of bacilli in the samples tested. 
Based on the DGGE analysis of fungi in meju, we determined that Absidia 
corymbifera, Aspergillus sp. and Candida rugosa were the main fungi in the 
tested samples.
CONCLUSIONS: A variety of bacterial and fungal micro-organisms were identified 
in meju samples, in addition to the micro-organisms already known to be present.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This is the first report showing the 
differences and similarities in the populations of micro-organisms in meju 
samples using nested PCR-DGGE, a culture-independent method. The results may be 
applicable to the development of improved meju, in which the indigenous 
micro-organisms required for fermentation can be standardized.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation © 2010 The Society for Applied 
Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-765X.2010.02906.x
PMID: 20704651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Sci Rep. 2016 Nov 9;6:36606. doi: 10.1038/srep36606.

Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal community composition affected by original 
elevation rather than translocation along an altitudinal gradient on the 
Qinghai-Tibet Plateau.

Yang W(1)(2), Zheng Y(1), Gao C(1), Duan JC(3), Wang SP(4), Guo LD(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Mycology, Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy 
of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(2)College of Resources and Environment, Northeast Agricultural University, 
Harbin 150030, China.
(3)Binhai Research Institute in Tianjin, Tianjin 300457, China.
(4)Laboratory of Alpine Ecology and Biodiversity, Institute of Tibetan Plateau 
Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China.
(5)College of Life Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 
100049, China.

Elucidating arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungal responses to elevation changes is 
critical to improve understanding of microbial function in ecosystems under 
global asymmetrical climate change scenarios. Here we examined AM fungal 
community in a two-year reciprocal translocation of vegetation-intact soil 
blocks along an altitudinal gradient (3,200 m to 3,800 m) in an alpine meadow on 
the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. AM fungal spore density was significantly higher at 
lower elevation than at higher elevation regardless of translocation, except 
that this parameter was significantly increased by upward translocation from 
original 3,200 m to 3,400 m and 3,600 m. Seventy-three operational taxonomic 
units (OTUs) of AM fungi were recovered using 454-pyrosequencing of 18S rDNA 
sequences at a 97% sequence similarity. Original elevation, downward 
translocation and upward translocation did not significantly affect AM fungal 
OTU richness. However, with increasing altitude the OTU richness of 
Acaulosporaceae and Ambisporaceae increased, but the OTU richness of 
Gigasporaceae and Glomeraceae decreased generally. The AM fungal community 
composition was significantly structured by original elevation but not by 
downward translocation and upward translocation. Our findings highlight that 
compared with the short-term reciprocal translocation, original elevation is a 
stronger determinant in shaping AM fungal community in the Qinghai-Tibet alpine 
meadow.

DOI: 10.1038/srep36606
PMCID: PMC5101527
PMID: 27827400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 25;10(2):e0118579. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118579. 
eCollection 2015.

Olive ridley sea turtle hatching success as a function of the microbial 
abundance in nest sand at Ostional, Costa Rica.

Bézy VS(1), Valverde RA(2), Plante CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, College of Charleston, Charleston, South Carolina, 
United States of America.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Southeastern Louisiana University, 
Hammond, Louisiana, United States of America.

Several studies have suggested that significant embryo mortality is caused by 
microbes, while high microbial loads are generated by the decomposition of eggs 
broken by later nesting turtles. This occurs commonly when nesting density is 
high, especially during mass nesting events (arribadas). However, no previous 
research has directly quantified microbial abundance and the associated effects 
on sea turtle hatching success at a nesting beach. The aim of this study was to 
test the hypothesis that the microbial abundance in olive ridley sea turtle nest 
sand affects the hatching success at Ostional, Costa Rica. We applied 
experimental treatments to alter the microbial abundance within the sand into 
which nests were relocated. We monitored temperature, oxygen, and organic matter 
content throughout the incubation period and quantified the microbial abundance 
within the nest sand using a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) 
molecular analysis. The most successful treatment in increasing hatching success 
was the removal and replacement of nest sand. We found a negative correlation 
between hatching success and fungal abundance (fungal 18S rRNA gene copies g(-1) 
nest sand). Of secondary importance in determining hatching success was the 
abundance of bacteria (bacterial 16S rRNA gene copies g(-1) g(-1) nest sand). 
Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that high microbial activity is 
responsible for the lower hatching success observed at Ostional beach. 
Furthermore, the underlying mechanism appears to be the deprivation of oxygen 
and exposure to higher temperatures resulting from microbial decomposition in 
the nest.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0118579
PMCID: PMC4340935
PMID: 25714355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


183. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e53779. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053779. Epub 2013 Jan 14.

Mining of novel thermo-stable cellulolytic genes from a thermophilic 
cellulose-degrading consortium by metagenomics.

Xia Y(1), Ju F, Fang HH, Zhang T.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Biotechnology Lab, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, 
China.

In this study, metagenomics was applied to characterize the microbial community 
and to discover carbohydrate-active genes of an enriched thermophilic 
cellulose-degrading sludge. The 16S analysis showed that the sludge microbiome 
was dominated by genus of cellulolytic Clostridium and methanogenesis 
Methanothermobacter. In order to retrieve genes from the metagenome, de novo 
assembly of the 11,930,760 Illumina 100 bp paired-end reads (totally 1.2 Gb) was 
carried out. 75% of all reads was utilized in the de novo assembly. 31,499 ORFs 
(Open Reading Frame) with an average length of 852 bp were predicted from the 
assembly; and 64% of these ORFs were predicted to present full-length genes. 
Based on the Hidden Markol Model, 253 of the predicted thermo-stable genes were 
identified as putatively carbohydrate-active. Among them the relative dominance 
of GH9 (Glycoside Hydrolase) and corresponding CBM3 (Carbohydrate Binding 
Module) revealed a cellulosome-based attached metabolism of polysaccharide in 
the thermophilic sludge. The putative carbohydrate-active genes ranged from 20% 
to 100% amino acid sequence identity to known proteins in NCBI nr database, with 
half of them showed less than 50% similarity. In addition, the coverage of the 
genes (in terms of ORFs) identified in the sludge were developed into three 
clear trends (112×, 29× and 8×) in which 85% of the high coverage trend (112×) 
mainly consisted of phylum of Firmicutes while 49.3% of the 29× trend was 
affiliated to the phylum of Chloroflexi.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053779
PMCID: PMC3544849
PMID: 23341999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


184. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 31;9(7):e103646. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103646. 
eCollection 2014.

An unclassified microorganism: novel pathogen candidate lurking in human 
airways.

Fukuda K(1), Yatera K(2), Ogawa M(1), Kawanami T(2), Yamasaki K(2), Noguchi 
S(2), Murphy RS(3), Mukae H(2), Taniguchi H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Occupational and Environmental 
Health, Japan, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, University of Occupational and 
Environmental Health, Japan, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Center of Fundamental Education, University of Kitakyushu, Kitakyushu, 
Fukuoka, Japan.

During the assessments of the correlation of the diseases and the microbiota of 
various clinical specimens, unique 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene sequences (less 
than 80% similarity to known bacterial type strains) were predominantly detected 
in a bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) specimen from a patient with chronic 
lower respiratory tract infection. The origin of this unique sequence is 
suspected to be the causative agent of the infection. We temporarily named the 
owner organism of this sequence "IOLA" (Infectious Organism Lurking in Airways). 
In order to evaluate the significance of IOLA in human lung disorders, we 
performed several experiments. IOLA-16S rRNA genes were detected in 6 of 386 
clone libraries constructed from clinical specimens of patients with respiratory 
diseases (in our study series). The gene sequences (1,427 bp) are identical, and 
no significantly similar sequence was found in public databases (using NCBI 
blastn) except for the 8 shorter sequences detected from patients with 
respiratory diseases in other studies from 2 other countries. Phylogenetic 
analyses revealed that the 16S rRNA gene of IOLA is more closely related to 
eukaryotic mitochondria than bacteria. However, the size and shape of IOLA seen 
by fluorescent in-situ hybridization are similar to small bacteria 
(approximately 1 µm with a spherical shape). Furthermore, features of both 
bacteria and mitochondria were observed in the genomic fragment (about 19 kb) of 
IOLA, and the GC ratio of the sequence was extremely low (20.5%). Two main 
conclusions were reached: (1) IOLA is a novel bacteria-like microorganism that, 
interestingly, possesses features of eukaryotic mitochondria. (2) IOLA is a 
novel pathogen candidate, and it may be the causative agent of human lung or 
airway disease. IOLA exists in BALF specimens from patients with remarkable 
symptoms; this information is an important piece for helping solve the elusive 
etiology of chronic respiratory disorders.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103646
PMCID: PMC4117515
PMID: 25080337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


185. Front Microbiol. 2020 Apr 15;11:569. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00569. eCollection 
2020.

Variation in Snow Algae Blooms in the Coast Range of British Columbia.

Engstrom CB(1), Yakimovich KM(1), Quarmby LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Simon Fraser University, 
Burnaby, BC, Canada.

Snow algae blooms cover vast areas of summer snowfields worldwide, reducing 
albedo and increasing snow melt. Despite their global prevalence, little is 
known about the algae species that comprise these blooms. We used 18S and rbcL 
metabarcoding and light microscopy to characterize algae species composition in 
31 snow algae blooms in the Coast Range of British Columbia, Canada. This study 
is the first to thoroughly document regional variation between blooms. We found 
all blooms were dominated by the genera Sanguina, Chloromonas, and Chlainomonas. 
There was considerable variation between blooms, most notably species 
assemblages above treeline were distinct from forested sites. In contrast to 
previous studies, the snow algae genus Chlainomonas was abundant and widespread 
in snow algae blooms. We found few taxa using traditional 18S metabarcoding, but 
the high taxonomic resolution of rbcL revealed substantial diversity, including 
OTUs that likely represent unnamed species of snow algae. These three 
cross-referenced datasets (rbcL, 18S, and microscopy) reveal that alpine snow 
algae blooms are more diverse than previously thought, with different species of 
algae dominating different elevations.

Copyright © 2020 Engstrom, Yakimovich and Quarmby.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2020.00569
PMCID: PMC7174675
PMID: 32351463


186. Microbiome. 2020 Mar 12;8(1):34. doi: 10.1186/s40168-020-00798-w.

Deep-sea corals provide new insight into the ecology, evolution, and the role of 
plastids in widespread apicomplexan symbionts of anthozoans.

Vohsen SA(1), Anderson KE(2), Gade AM(2), Gruber-Vodicka HR(3), Dannenberg 
RP(2)(4), Osman EO(2)(5), Dubilier N(3), Fisher CR(2), Baums IB(2).

Author information:
(1)Biology Department, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA. 
sav146@psu.edu.
(2)Biology Department, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Symbiosis, Max Planck Institute for Marine Microbiology, 
Bremen, Germany.
(4)Epic, Madison, WI, USA.
(5)Marine Biology Department, Faculty of Science, Al Azhar University, Cairo, 
Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Apicomplexans are the causative agents of major human diseases such 
as malaria and toxoplasmosis. A novel group of apicomplexans, recently named 
corallicolids, have been detected in corals inhabiting tropical shallow reefs. 
These apicomplexans may represent a transitional lifestyle between free-living 
phototrophs and obligate parasites. To shed light on the evolutionary history of 
apicomplexans and to investigate their ecology in association with corals, we 
screened scleractinians, antipatharians, alcyonaceans, and zoantharians from 
shallow, mesophotic, and deep-sea communities. We detected corallicolid plastids 
using 16S metabarcoding, sequenced the nuclear 18S rRNA gene of corallicolids 
from selected samples, assembled and annotated the plastid and mitochondrial 
genomes from a corallicolid that associates with a deep-sea coral, and screened 
the metagenomes of four coral species for corallicolids.
RESULTS: We detected 23 corallicolid plastotypes that were associated with 14 
coral species from three orders and depths down to 1400 m. Individual 
plastotypes were restricted to coral hosts within a single depth zone and within 
a single taxonomic order of corals. Some clusters of closely related 
corallicolids were revealed that associated with closely related coral species. 
However, the presence of divergent corallicolid lineages that associated with 
similar coral species and depths suggests that corallicolid/coral relations are 
flexible over evolutionary timescales and that a large diversity of 
apicomplexans may remain undiscovered. The corallicolid plastid genome from a 
deep-sea coral contained four genes involved in chlorophyll biosynthesis: the 
three genes of the LIPOR complex and acsF.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of corallicolid apicomplexans in corals below the 
photic zone demonstrates that they are not restricted to shallow-water reefs and 
are more general anthozoan symbionts. The presence of LIPOR genes in the 
deep-sea corallicolid precludes a role involving photosynthesis and suggests 
they may be involved in a different function. Thus, these genes may represent 
another set of genetic tools whose function was adapted from photosynthesis as 
the ancestors of apicomplexans evolved towards parasitic lifestyles. Video 
abstract.

DOI: 10.1186/s40168-020-00798-w
PMCID: PMC7068898
PMID: 32164774

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


187. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jun 3;111(22):7952-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1400380111. Epub 2014 May 19.

Tropospheric winds from northeastern China carry the etiologic agent of Kawasaki 
disease from its source to Japan.

Rodó X(1), Curcoll R(2), Robinson M(2), Ballester J(3), Burns JC(4), Cayan 
DR(5), Lipkin WI(6), Williams BL(6), Couto-Rodriguez M(6), Nakamura Y(7), Uehara 
R(7), Tanimoto H(8), Morguí JA(2).

Author information:
(1)Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats, 08010 Barcelona, 
Catalonia, Spain;Unitat de Dinàmica i Impacte Climàtic (UDIC), Institut Català 
de Ciències del Clima, 08005 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain; xavier.rodo@ic3.cat.
(2)Unitat de Dinàmica i Impacte Climàtic (UDIC), Institut Català de Ciències del 
Clima, 08005 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain;
(3)Unitat de Dinàmica i Impacte Climàtic (UDIC), Institut Català de Ciències del 
Clima, 08005 Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain;Geological and Planetary Sciences, 
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125;
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Rady Children's Hospital-San Diego and University 
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093;
(5)Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California, San Diego, La 
Jolla, CA 92037;US Geological Survey, La Jolla, CA 92037;
(6)Center for Infection and Immunity, Mailman School of Public Health of 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032;
(7)Department of Public Health, Jichi Medical Hospital, Togichi 108-8639, Japan; 
and.
(8)Center for Global Environmental Research, National Institute for 
Environmental Studies, Tsukuba 305-8506, Japan.

Evidence indicates that the densely cultivated region of northeastern China acts 
as a source for the wind-borne agent of Kawasaki disease (KD). KD is an acute, 
coronary artery vasculitis of young children, and still a medical mystery after 
more than 40 y. We used residence times from simulations with the flexible 
particle dispersion model to pinpoint the source region for KD. Simulations were 
generated from locations spanning Japan from days with either high or low KD 
incidence. The postepidemic interval (1987-2010) and the extreme epidemics 
(1979, 1982, and 1986) pointed to the same source region. Results suggest a very 
short incubation period (<24 h) from exposure, thus making an infectious agent 
unlikely. Sampling campaigns over Japan during the KD season detected major 
differences in the microbiota of the tropospheric aerosols compared with ground 
aerosols, with the unexpected finding of the Candida species as the dominant 
fungus from aloft samples (54% of all fungal strains). These results, consistent 
with the Candida animal model for KD, provide support for the concept and 
feasibility of a windborne pathogen. A fungal toxin could be pursued as a 
possible etiologic agent of KD, consistent with an agricultural source, a short 
incubation time and synchronized outbreaks. Our study suggests that the 
causative agent of KD is a preformed toxin or environmental agent rather than an 
organism requiring replication. We propose a new paradigm whereby an 
idiosyncratic immune response, influenced by host genetics triggered by an 
environmental exposure carried on winds, results in the clinical syndrome known 
as acute KD.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1400380111
PMCID: PMC4050536
PMID: 24843117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


188. FEMS Microbiol Ecol. 2006 Sep;57(3):420-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.00130.x.

Eukaryotic diversity in historical soil samples.

Moon-van der Staay SY(1), Tzeneva VA, van der Staay GW, de Vos WM, Smidt H, 
Hackstein JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Microbiology, Faculty of Science, Radboud 
University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

The eukaryotic biodiversity in historical air-dried samples of Dutch 
agricultural soil has been assessed by random sequencing of an 18S rRNA gene 
library and by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Representatives of 
nearly all taxa of eukaryotic soil microbes could be identified, demonstrating 
that it is possible to study eukaryotic microbiota in samples from soil archives 
that have been stored for more than 30 years at room temperature. In a pilot 
study, 41 sequences were retrieved that could be assigned to fungi and a variety 
of aerobic and anaerobic protists such as cercozoans, ciliates, xanthophytes 
(stramenopiles), heteroloboseans, and amoebozoans. A PCR-denaturing gradient gel 
electrophoresis analysis of samples collected between 1950 and 1975 revealed 
significant changes in the composition of the eukaryotic microbiota.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6941.2006.00130.x
PMID: 16907756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Sci Rep. 2014 Jul 31;4:5892. doi: 10.1038/srep05892.

Archaeal abundance in post-mortem ruminal digesta may help predict methane 
emissions from beef cattle.

Wallace RJ(1), Rooke JA(2), Duthie CA(2), Hyslop JJ(2), Ross DW(2), McKain N(1), 
de Souza SM(1), Snelling TJ(1), Waterhouse A(2), Roehe R(2).

Author information:
(1)Rowett Institute of Nutrition and Health, University of Aberdeen, Bucksburn, 
Aberdeen AB21 9SB, UK.
(2)SRUC, West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JG, UK.

Methane produced from 35 Aberdeen-Angus and 33 Limousin cross steers was 
measured in respiration chambers. Each group was split to receive either a 
medium- or high-concentrate diet. Ruminal digesta samples were subsequently 
removed to investigate correlations between methane emissions and the rumen 
microbial community, as measured by qPCR of 16S or 18S rRNA genes. Diet had the 
greatest influence on methane emissions. The high-concentrate diet resulted in 
lower methane emissions (P < 0.001) than the medium-concentrate diet. Methane 
was correlated, irrespective of breed, with the abundance of archaea (R = 0.39), 
bacteria (-0.47), protozoa (0.45), Bacteroidetes (-0.37) and Clostridium Cluster 
XIVa (-0.35). The archaea:bacteria ratio provided a stronger correlation (0.49). 
A similar correlation was found with digesta samples taken 2-3 weeks later at 
slaughter. This finding could help enable greenhouse gas emissions of large 
animal cohorts to be predicted from samples taken conveniently in the abattoir.

DOI: 10.1038/srep05892
PMCID: PMC5376199
PMID: 25081098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.